3.5 Content Codings

   Content coding values indicate an encoding transformation that has
   been or can be applied to an entity. Content codings are primarily
   used to allow a document to be compressed or otherwise usefully
   transformed without losing the identity of its underlying media type
   and without loss of information. Frequently, the entity is stored in
   coded form, transmitted directly, and only decoded by the recipient.

       content-coding   = token

   All content-coding values are case-insensitive. HTTP/1.1 uses
   content-coding values in the Accept-Encoding (section 14.3) and
   Content-Encoding (section 14.11) header fields. Although the value
   describes the content-coding, what is more important is that it
   indicates what decoding mechanism will be required to remove the
   encoding.

   The Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) acts as a registry for
   content-coding value tokens. Initially, the registry contains the
   following tokens:

   gzip An encoding format produced by the file compression program
        "gzip" (GNU zip) as described in RFC 1952 [25]. This format is a
        Lempel-Ziv coding (LZ77) with a 32 bit CRC.

   compress
        The encoding format produced by the common UNIX file compression
        program "compress". This format is an adaptive Lempel-Ziv-Welch
        coding (LZW).

        Use of program names for the identification of encoding formats
        is not desirable and is discouraged for future encodings. Their
        use here is representative of historical practice, not good
        design. For compatibility with previous implementations of HTTP,
        applications SHOULD consider "x-gzip" and "x-compress" to be
        equivalent to "gzip" and "compress" respectively.

   deflate
        The "zlib" format defined in RFC 1950 [31] in combination with
        the "deflate" compression mechanism described in RFC 1951 [29].






Fielding, et al.            Standards Track                    [Page 23]

RFC 2616                        HTTP/1.1                       June 1999


   identity
        The default (identity) encoding; the use of no transformation
        whatsoever. This content-coding is used only in the Accept-
        Encoding header, and SHOULD NOT be used in the Content-Encoding
        header.

   New content-coding value tokens SHOULD be registered; to allow
   interoperability between clients and servers, specifications of the
   content coding algorithms needed to implement a new value SHOULD be
   publicly available and adequate for independent implementation, and
   conform to the purpose of content coding defined in this section.

