3.6 Transfer Codings

   Transfer-coding values are used to indicate an encoding
   transformation that has been, can be, or may need to be applied to an
   entity-body in order to ensure "safe transport" through the network.
   This differs from a content coding in that the transfer-coding is a
   property of the message, not of the original entity.

       transfer-coding         = "chunked" | transfer-extension
       transfer-extension      = token *( ";" parameter )

   Parameters are in  the form of attribute/value pairs.

       parameter               = attribute "=" value
       attribute               = token
       value                   = token | quoted-string

   All transfer-coding values are case-insensitive. HTTP/1.1 uses
   transfer-coding values in the TE header field (section 14.39) and in
   the Transfer-Encoding header field (section 14.41).

   Whenever a transfer-coding is applied to a message-body, the set of
   transfer-codings MUST include "chunked", unless the message is
   terminated by closing the connection. When the "chunked" transfer-
   coding is used, it MUST be the last transfer-coding applied to the
   message-body. The "chunked" transfer-coding MUST NOT be applied more
   than once to a message-body. These rules allow the recipient to
   determine the transfer-length of the message (section 4.4).

   Transfer-codings are analogous to the Content-Transfer-Encoding
   values of MIME [7], which were designed to enable safe transport of
   binary data over a 7-bit transport service. However, safe transport
   has a different focus for an 8bit-clean transfer protocol. In HTTP,
   the only unsafe characteristic of message-bodies is the difficulty in
   determining the exact body length (section 7.2.2), or the desire to
   encrypt data over a shared transport.



Fielding, et al.            Standards Track                    [Page 24]

RFC 2616                        HTTP/1.1                       June 1999


   The Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) acts as a registry for
   transfer-coding value tokens. Initially, the registry contains the
   following tokens: "chunked" (section 3.6.1), "identity" (section
   3.6.2), "gzip" (section 3.5), "compress" (section 3.5), and "deflate"
   (section 3.5).

   New transfer-coding value tokens SHOULD be registered in the same way
   as new content-coding value tokens (section 3.5).

   A server which receives an entity-body with a transfer-coding it does
   not understand SHOULD return 501 (Unimplemented), and close the
   connection. A server MUST NOT send transfer-codings to an HTTP/1.0
   client.

