3.7.2 Multipart Types

   MIME provides for a number of "multipart" types -- encapsulations of
   one or more entities within a single message-body. All multipart
   types share a common syntax, as defined in section 5.1.1 of RFC 2046



Fielding, et al.            Standards Track                    [Page 27]

RFC 2616                        HTTP/1.1                       June 1999


   [40], and MUST include a boundary parameter as part of the media type
   value. The message body is itself a protocol element and MUST
   therefore use only CRLF to represent line breaks between body-parts.
   Unlike in RFC 2046, the epilogue of any multipart message MUST be
   empty; HTTP applications MUST NOT transmit the epilogue (even if the
   original multipart contains an epilogue). These restrictions exist in
   order to preserve the self-delimiting nature of a multipart message-
   body, wherein the "end" of the message-body is indicated by the
   ending multipart boundary.

   In general, HTTP treats a multipart message-body no differently than
   any other media type: strictly as payload. The one exception is the
   "multipart/byteranges" type (appendix 19.2) when it appears in a 206
   (Partial Content) response, which will be interpreted by some HTTP
   caching mechanisms as described in sections 13.5.4 and 14.16. In all
   other cases, an HTTP user agent SHOULD follow the same or similar
   behavior as a MIME user agent would upon receipt of a multipart type.
   The MIME header fields within each body-part of a multipart message-
   body do not have any significance to HTTP beyond that defined by
   their MIME semantics.

   In general, an HTTP user agent SHOULD follow the same or similar
   behavior as a MIME user agent would upon receipt of a multipart type.
   If an application receives an unrecognized multipart subtype, the
   application MUST treat it as being equivalent to "multipart/mixed".

      Note: The "multipart/form-data" type has been specifically defined
      for carrying form data suitable for processing via the POST
      request method, as described in RFC 1867 [15].

