8.1.1 Purpose

   Prior to persistent connections, a separate TCP connection was
   established to fetch each URL, increasing the load on HTTP servers
   and causing congestion on the Internet. The use of inline images and
   other associated data often require a client to make multiple
   requests of the same server in a short amount of time. Analysis of
   these performance problems and results from a prototype
   implementation are available [26] [30]. Implementation experience and
   measurements of actual HTTP/1.1 (RFC 2068) implementations show good
   results [39]. Alternatives have also been explored, for example,
   T/TCP [27].

   Persistent HTTP connections have a number of advantages:

      - By opening and closing fewer TCP connections, CPU time is saved
        in routers and hosts (clients, servers, proxies, gateways,
        tunnels, or caches), and memory used for TCP protocol control
        blocks can be saved in hosts.

      - HTTP requests and responses can be pipelined on a connection.
        Pipelining allows a client to make multiple requests without
        waiting for each response, allowing a single TCP connection to
        be used much more efficiently, with much lower elapsed time.

      - Network congestion is reduced by reducing the number of packets
        caused by TCP opens, and by allowing TCP sufficient time to
        determine the congestion state of the network.

      - Latency on subsequent requests is reduced since there is no time
        spent in TCP's connection opening handshake.

      - HTTP can evolve more gracefully, since errors can be reported
        without the penalty of closing the TCP connection. Clients using
        future versions of HTTP might optimistically try a new feature,
        but if communicating with an older server, retry with old
        semantics after an error is reported.

   HTTP implementations SHOULD implement persistent connections.








Fielding, et al.            Standards Track                    [Page 44]

RFC 2616                        HTTP/1.1                       June 1999


