13.5.2 Non-modifiable Headers

   Some features of the HTTP/1.1 protocol, such as Digest
   Authentication, depend on the value of certain end-to-end headers. A
   transparent proxy SHOULD NOT modify an end-to-end header unless the
   definition of that header requires or specifically allows that.






Fielding, et al.            Standards Track                    [Page 92]

RFC 2616                        HTTP/1.1                       June 1999


   A transparent proxy MUST NOT modify any of the following fields in a
   request or response, and it MUST NOT add any of these fields if not
   already present:

      - Content-Location

      - Content-MD5

      - ETag

      - Last-Modified

   A transparent proxy MUST NOT modify any of the following fields in a
   response:

      - Expires

   but it MAY add any of these fields if not already present. If an
   Expires header is added, it MUST be given a field-value identical to
   that of the Date header in that response.

   A  proxy MUST NOT modify or add any of the following fields in a
   message that contains the no-transform cache-control directive, or in
   any request:

      - Content-Encoding

      - Content-Range

      - Content-Type

   A non-transparent proxy MAY modify or add these fields to a message
   that does not include no-transform, but if it does so, it MUST add a
   Warning 214 (Transformation applied) if one does not already appear
   in the message (see section 14.46).

      Warning: unnecessary modification of end-to-end headers might
      cause authentication failures if stronger authentication
      mechanisms are introduced in later versions of HTTP. Such
      authentication mechanisms MAY rely on the values of header fields
      not listed here.

   The Content-Length field of a request or response is added or deleted
   according to the rules in section 4.4. A transparent proxy MUST
   preserve the entity-length (section 7.2.2) of the entity-body,
   although it MAY change the transfer-length (section 4.4).





Fielding, et al.            Standards Track                    [Page 93]

RFC 2616                        HTTP/1.1                       June 1999


