14.9.1 What is Cacheable

   By default, a response is cacheable if the requirements of the
   request method, request header fields, and the response status
   indicate that it is cacheable. Section 13.4 summarizes these defaults
   for cacheability. The following Cache-Control response directives
   allow an origin server to override the default cacheability of a
   response:

   public
      Indicates that the response MAY be cached by any cache, even if it
      would normally be non-cacheable or cacheable only within a non-
      shared cache. (See also Authorization, section 14.8, for
      additional details.)

   private
      Indicates that all or part of the response message is intended for
      a single user and MUST NOT be cached by a shared cache. This
      allows an origin server to state that the specified parts of the





Fielding, et al.            Standards Track                   [Page 109]

RFC 2616                        HTTP/1.1                       June 1999


      response are intended for only one user and are not a valid
      response for requests by other users. A private (non-shared) cache
      MAY cache the response.

       Note: This usage of the word private only controls where the
       response may be cached, and cannot ensure the privacy of the
       message content.

   no-cache
       If the no-cache directive does not specify a field-name, then a
      cache MUST NOT use the response to satisfy a subsequent request
      without successful revalidation with the origin server. This
      allows an origin server to prevent caching even by caches that
      have been configured to return stale responses to client requests.

      If the no-cache directive does specify one or more field-names,
      then a cache MAY use the response to satisfy a subsequent request,
      subject to any other restrictions on caching. However, the
      specified field-name(s) MUST NOT be sent in the response to a
      subsequent request without successful revalidation with the origin
      server. This allows an origin server to prevent the re-use of
      certain header fields in a response, while still allowing caching
      of the rest of the response.

       Note: Most HTTP/1.0 caches will not recognize or obey this
       directive.

