14.10 Connection

   The Connection general-header field allows the sender to specify
   options that are desired for that particular connection and MUST NOT
   be communicated by proxies over further connections.

   The Connection header has the following grammar:

       Connection = "Connection" ":" 1#(connection-token)
       connection-token  = token

   HTTP/1.1 proxies MUST parse the Connection header field before a
   message is forwarded and, for each connection-token in this field,
   remove any header field(s) from the message with the same name as the
   connection-token. Connection options are signaled by the presence of
   a connection-token in the Connection header field, not by any
   corresponding additional header field(s), since the additional header
   field may not be sent if there are no parameters associated with that
   connection option.

   Message headers listed in the Connection header MUST NOT include
   end-to-end headers, such as Cache-Control.

   HTTP/1.1 defines the "close" connection option for the sender to
   signal that the connection will be closed after completion of the
   response. For example,

       Connection: close

   in either the request or the response header fields indicates that
   the connection SHOULD NOT be considered `persistent' (section 8.1)
   after the current request/response is complete.

   HTTP/1.1 applications that do not support persistent connections MUST
   include the "close" connection option in every message.

   A system receiving an HTTP/1.0 (or lower-version) message that
   includes a Connection header MUST, for each connection-token in this
   field, remove and ignore any header field(s) from the message with
   the same name as the connection-token. This protects against mistaken
   forwarding of such header fields by pre-HTTP/1.1 proxies. See section
   19.6.2.



Fielding, et al.            Standards Track                   [Page 117]

RFC 2616                        HTTP/1.1                       June 1999


