14.21 Expires

   The Expires entity-header field gives the date/time after which the
   response is considered stale. A stale cache entry may not normally be
   returned by a cache (either a proxy cache or a user agent cache)
   unless it is first validated with the origin server (or with an
   intermediate cache that has a fresh copy of the entity). See section
   13.2 for further discussion of the expiration model.

   The presence of an Expires field does not imply that the original
   resource will change or cease to exist at, before, or after that
   time.

   The format is an absolute date and time as defined by HTTP-date in
   section 3.3.1; it MUST be in RFC 1123 date format:

      Expires = "Expires" ":" HTTP-date

   An example of its use is

      Expires: Thu, 01 Dec 1994 16:00:00 GMT

      Note: if a response includes a Cache-Control field with the max-
      age directive (see section 14.9.3), that directive overrides the
      Expires field.

   HTTP/1.1 clients and caches MUST treat other invalid date formats,
   especially including the value "0", as in the past (i.e., "already
   expired").

   To mark a response as "already expired," an origin server sends an
   Expires date that is equal to the Date header value. (See the rules
   for expiration calculations in section 13.2.4.)







Fielding, et al.            Standards Track                   [Page 127]

RFC 2616                        HTTP/1.1                       June 1999


   To mark a response as "never expires," an origin server sends an
   Expires date approximately one year from the time the response is
   sent. HTTP/1.1 servers SHOULD NOT send Expires dates more than one
   year in the future.

   The presence of an Expires header field with a date value of some
   time in the future on a response that otherwise would by default be
   non-cacheable indicates that the response is cacheable, unless
   indicated otherwise by a Cache-Control header field (section 14.9).

