14.15 Content-MD5

   The Content-MD5 entity-header field, as defined in RFC 1864 [23], is
   an MD5 digest of the entity-body for the purpose of providing an
   end-to-end message integrity check (MIC) of the entity-body. (Note: a
   MIC is good for detecting accidental modification of the entity-body
   in transit, but is not proof against malicious attacks.)

        Content-MD5   = "Content-MD5" ":" md5-digest
        md5-digest   = <base64 of 128 bit MD5 digest as per RFC 1864>

   The Content-MD5 header field MAY be generated by an origin server or
   client to function as an integrity check of the entity-body. Only
   origin servers or clients MAY generate the Content-MD5 header field;
   proxies and gateways MUST NOT generate it, as this would defeat its
   value as an end-to-end integrity check. Any recipient of the entity-
   body, including gateways and proxies, MAY check that the digest value
   in this header field matches that of the entity-body as received.

   The MD5 digest is computed based on the content of the entity-body,
   including any content-coding that has been applied, but not including
   any transfer-encoding applied to the message-body. If the message is
   received with a transfer-encoding, that encoding MUST be removed
   prior to checking the Content-MD5 value against the received entity.

   This has the result that the digest is computed on the octets of the
   entity-body exactly as, and in the order that, they would be sent if
   no transfer-encoding were being applied.

   HTTP extends RFC 1864 to permit the digest to be computed for MIME
   composite media-types (e.g., multipart/* and message/rfc822), but
   this does not change how the digest is computed as defined in the
   preceding paragraph.

   There are several consequences of this. The entity-body for composite
   types MAY contain many body-parts, each with its own MIME and HTTP
   headers (including Content-MD5, Content-Transfer-Encoding, and
   Content-Encoding headers). If a body-part has a Content-Transfer-
   Encoding or Content-Encoding header, it is assumed that the content
   of the body-part has had the encoding applied, and the body-part is
   included in the Content-MD5 digest as is -- i.e., after the
   application. The Transfer-Encoding header field is not allowed within
   body-parts.

   Conversion of all line breaks to CRLF MUST NOT be done before
   computing or checking the digest: the line break convention used in
   the text actually transmitted MUST be left unaltered when computing
   the digest.



Fielding, et al.            Standards Track                   [Page 121]

RFC 2616                        HTTP/1.1                       June 1999


      Note: while the definition of Content-MD5 is exactly the same for
      HTTP as in RFC 1864 for MIME entity-bodies, there are several ways
      in which the application of Content-MD5 to HTTP entity-bodies
      differs from its application to MIME entity-bodies. One is that
      HTTP, unlike MIME, does not use Content-Transfer-Encoding, and
      does use Transfer-Encoding and Content-Encoding. Another is that
      HTTP more frequently uses binary content types than MIME, so it is
      worth noting that, in such cases, the byte order used to compute
      the digest is the transmission byte order defined for the type.
      Lastly, HTTP allows transmission of text types with any of several
      line break conventions and not just the canonical form using CRLF.

