14.25 If-Modified-Since

   The If-Modified-Since request-header field is used with a method to
   make it conditional: if the requested variant has not been modified
   since the time specified in this field, an entity will not be
   returned from the server; instead, a 304 (not modified) response will
   be returned without any message-body.

       If-Modified-Since = "If-Modified-Since" ":" HTTP-date



Fielding, et al.            Standards Track                   [Page 130]

RFC 2616                        HTTP/1.1                       June 1999


   An example of the field is:

       If-Modified-Since: Sat, 29 Oct 1994 19:43:31 GMT

   A GET method with an If-Modified-Since header and no Range header
   requests that the identified entity be transferred only if it has
   been modified since the date given by the If-Modified-Since header.
   The algorithm for determining this includes the following cases:

      a) If the request would normally result in anything other than a
         200 (OK) status, or if the passed If-Modified-Since date is
         invalid, the response is exactly the same as for a normal GET.
         A date which is later than the server's current time is
         invalid.

      b) If the variant has been modified since the If-Modified-Since
         date, the response is exactly the same as for a normal GET.

      c) If the variant has not been modified since a valid If-
         Modified-Since date, the server SHOULD return a 304 (Not
         Modified) response.

   The purpose of this feature is to allow efficient updates of cached
   information with a minimum amount of transaction overhead.

      Note: The Range request-header field modifies the meaning of If-
      Modified-Since; see section 14.35 for full details.

      Note: If-Modified-Since times are interpreted by the server, whose
      clock might not be synchronized with the client.

      Note: When handling an If-Modified-Since header field, some
      servers will use an exact date comparison function, rather than a
      less-than function, for deciding whether to send a 304 (Not
      Modified) response. To get best results when sending an If-
      Modified-Since header field for cache validation, clients are
      advised to use the exact date string received in a previous Last-
      Modified header field whenever possible.

      Note: If a client uses an arbitrary date in the If-Modified-Since
      header instead of a date taken from the Last-Modified header for
      the same request, the client should be aware of the fact that this
      date is interpreted in the server's understanding of time. The
      client should consider unsynchronized clocks and rounding problems
      due to the different encodings of time between the client and
      server. This includes the possibility of race conditions if the
      document has changed between the time it was first requested and
      the If-Modified-Since date of a subsequent request, and the



Fielding, et al.            Standards Track                   [Page 131]

RFC 2616                        HTTP/1.1                       June 1999


      possibility of clock-skew-related problems if the If-Modified-
      Since date is derived from the client's clock without correction
      to the server's clock. Corrections for different time bases
      between client and server are at best approximate due to network
      latency.

   The result of a request having both an If-Modified-Since header field
   and either an If-Match or an If-Unmodified-Since header fields is
   undefined by this specification.

