14.42 Upgrade

   The Upgrade general-header allows the client to specify what
   additional communication protocols it supports and would like to use
   if the server finds it appropriate to switch protocols. The server
   MUST use the Upgrade header field within a 101 (Switching Protocols)
   response to indicate which protocol(s) are being switched.

       Upgrade        = "Upgrade" ":" 1#product

   For example,

       Upgrade: HTTP/2.0, SHTTP/1.3, IRC/6.9, RTA/x11

   The Upgrade header field is intended to provide a simple mechanism
   for transition from HTTP/1.1 to some other, incompatible protocol. It
   does so by allowing the client to advertise its desire to use another
   protocol, such as a later version of HTTP with a higher major version
   number, even though the current request has been made using HTTP/1.1.
   This eases the difficult transition between incompatible protocols by
   allowing the client to initiate a request in the more commonly
   supported protocol while indicating to the server that it would like
   to use a "better" protocol if available (where "better" is determined
   by the server, possibly according to the nature of the method and/or
   resource being requested).

   The Upgrade header field only applies to switching application-layer
   protocols upon the existing transport-layer connection. Upgrade
   cannot be used to insist on a protocol change; its acceptance and use
   by the server is optional. The capabilities and nature of the
   application-layer communication after the protocol change is entirely
   dependent upon the new protocol chosen, although the first action
   after changing the protocol MUST be a response to the initial HTTP
   request containing the Upgrade header field.

   The Upgrade header field only applies to the immediate connection.
   Therefore, the upgrade keyword MUST be supplied within a Connection
   header field (section 14.10) whenever Upgrade is present in an
   HTTP/1.1 message.




Fielding, et al.            Standards Track                   [Page 144]

RFC 2616                        HTTP/1.1                       June 1999


   The Upgrade header field cannot be used to indicate a switch to a
   protocol on a different connection. For that purpose, it is more
   appropriate to use a 301, 302, 303, or 305 redirection response.

   This specification only defines the protocol name "HTTP" for use by
   the family of Hypertext Transfer Protocols, as defined by the HTTP
   version rules of section 3.1 and future updates to this
   specification. Any token can be used as a protocol name; however, it
   will only be useful if both the client and server associate the name
   with the same protocol.

