14.44 Vary

   The Vary field value indicates the set of request-header fields that
   fully determines, while the response is fresh, whether a cache is
   permitted to use the response to reply to a subsequent request
   without revalidation. For uncacheable or stale responses, the Vary
   field value advises the user agent about the criteria that were used
   to select the representation. A Vary field value of "*" implies that
   a cache cannot determine from the request headers of a subsequent
   request whether this response is the appropriate representation. See
   section 13.6 for use of the Vary header field by caches.

       Vary  = "Vary" ":" ( "*" | 1#field-name )

   An HTTP/1.1 server SHOULD include a Vary header field with any
   cacheable response that is subject to server-driven negotiation.
   Doing so allows a cache to properly interpret future requests on that
   resource and informs the user agent about the presence of negotiation



Fielding, et al.            Standards Track                   [Page 145]

RFC 2616                        HTTP/1.1                       June 1999


   on that resource. A server MAY include a Vary header field with a
   non-cacheable response that is subject to server-driven negotiation,
   since this might provide the user agent with useful information about
   the dimensions over which the response varies at the time of the
   response.

   A Vary field value consisting of a list of field-names signals that
   the representation selected for the response is based on a selection
   algorithm which considers ONLY the listed request-header field values
   in selecting the most appropriate representation. A cache MAY assume
   that the same selection will be made for future requests with the
   same values for the listed field names, for the duration of time for
   which the response is fresh.

   The field-names given are not limited to the set of standard
   request-header fields defined by this specification. Field names are
   case-insensitive.

   A Vary field value of "*" signals that unspecified parameters not
   limited to the request-headers (e.g., the network address of the
   client), play a role in the selection of the response representation.
   The "*" value MUST NOT be generated by a proxy server; it may only be
   generated by an origin server.

