14.45  Via

   The Via general-header field MUST be used by gateways and proxies to
   indicate the intermediate protocols and recipients between the user
   agent and the server on requests, and between the origin server and
   the client on responses. It is analogous to the "Received" field of
   RFC 822 [9] and is intended to be used for tracking message forwards,
   avoiding request loops, and identifying the protocol capabilities of
   all senders along the request/response chain.

      Via =  "Via" ":" 1#( received-protocol received-by [ comment ] )
      received-protocol = [ protocol-name "/" ] protocol-version
      protocol-name     = token
      protocol-version  = token
      received-by       = ( host [ ":" port ] ) | pseudonym
      pseudonym         = token

   The received-protocol indicates the protocol version of the message
   received by the server or client along each segment of the
   request/response chain. The received-protocol version is appended to
   the Via field value when the message is forwarded so that information
   about the protocol capabilities of upstream applications remains
   visible to all recipients.




Fielding, et al.            Standards Track                   [Page 146]

RFC 2616                        HTTP/1.1                       June 1999


   The protocol-name is optional if and only if it would be "HTTP". The
   received-by field is normally the host and optional port number of a
   recipient server or client that subsequently forwarded the message.
   However, if the real host is considered to be sensitive information,
   it MAY be replaced by a pseudonym. If the port is not given, it MAY
   be assumed to be the default port of the received-protocol.

   Multiple Via field values represents each proxy or gateway that has
   forwarded the message. Each recipient MUST append its information
   such that the end result is ordered according to the sequence of
   forwarding applications.

   Comments MAY be used in the Via header field to identify the software
   of the recipient proxy or gateway, analogous to the User-Agent and
   Server header fields. However, all comments in the Via field are
   optional and MAY be removed by any recipient prior to forwarding the
   message.

   For example, a request message could be sent from an HTTP/1.0 user
   agent to an internal proxy code-named "fred", which uses HTTP/1.1 to
   forward the request to a public proxy at nowhere.com, which completes
   the request by forwarding it to the origin server at www.ics.uci.edu.
   The request received by www.ics.uci.edu would then have the following
   Via header field:

       Via: 1.0 fred, 1.1 nowhere.com (Apache/1.1)

   Proxies and gateways used as a portal through a network firewall
   SHOULD NOT, by default, forward the names and ports of hosts within
   the firewall region. This information SHOULD only be propagated if
   explicitly enabled. If not enabled, the received-by host of any host
   behind the firewall SHOULD be replaced by an appropriate pseudonym
   for that host.

   For organizations that have strong privacy requirements for hiding
   internal structures, a proxy MAY combine an ordered subsequence of
   Via header field entries with identical received-protocol values into
   a single such entry. For example,

       Via: 1.0 ricky, 1.1 ethel, 1.1 fred, 1.0 lucy

        could be collapsed to

       Via: 1.0 ricky, 1.1 mertz, 1.0 lucy







Fielding, et al.            Standards Track                   [Page 147]

RFC 2616                        HTTP/1.1                       June 1999


   Applications SHOULD NOT combine multiple entries unless they are all
   under the same organizational control and the hosts have already been
   replaced by pseudonyms. Applications MUST NOT combine entries which
   have different received-protocol values.

