14.46 Warning

   The Warning general-header field is used to carry additional
   information about the status or transformation of a message which
   might not be reflected in the message. This information is typically
   used to warn about a possible lack of semantic transparency from
   caching operations or transformations applied to the entity body of
   the message.

   Warning headers are sent with responses using:

       Warning    = "Warning" ":" 1#warning-value

       warning-value = warn-code SP warn-agent SP warn-text
                                             [SP warn-date]

       warn-code  = 3DIGIT
       warn-agent = ( host [ ":" port ] ) | pseudonym
                       ; the name or pseudonym of the server adding
                       ; the Warning header, for use in debugging
       warn-text  = quoted-string
       warn-date  = <"> HTTP-date <">

   A response MAY carry more than one Warning header.

   The warn-text SHOULD be in a natural language and character set that
   is most likely to be intelligible to the human user receiving the
   response. This decision MAY be based on any available knowledge, such
   as the location of the cache or user, the Accept-Language field in a
   request, the Content-Language field in a response, etc. The default
   language is English and the default character set is ISO-8859-1.

   If a character set other than ISO-8859-1 is used, it MUST be encoded
   in the warn-text using the method described in RFC 2047 [14].

   Warning headers can in general be applied to any message, however
   some specific warn-codes are specific to caches and can only be
   applied to response messages. New Warning headers SHOULD be added
   after any existing Warning headers. A cache MUST NOT delete any
   Warning header that it received with a message. However, if a cache
   successfully validates a cache entry, it SHOULD remove any Warning
   headers previously attached to that entry except as specified for




Fielding, et al.            Standards Track                   [Page 148]

RFC 2616                        HTTP/1.1                       June 1999


   specific Warning codes. It MUST then add any Warning headers received
   in the validating response. In other words, Warning headers are those
   that would be attached to the most recent relevant response.

   When multiple Warning headers are attached to a response, the user
   agent ought to inform the user of as many of them as possible, in the
   order that they appear in the response. If it is not possible to
   inform the user of all of the warnings, the user agent SHOULD follow
   these heuristics:

      - Warnings that appear early in the response take priority over
        those appearing later in the response.

      - Warnings in the user's preferred character set take priority
        over warnings in other character sets but with identical warn-
        codes and warn-agents.

   Systems that generate multiple Warning headers SHOULD order them with
   this user agent behavior in mind.

   Requirements for the behavior of caches with respect to Warnings are
   stated in section 13.1.2.

   This is a list of the currently-defined warn-codes, each with a
   recommended warn-text in English, and a description of its meaning.

   110 Response is stale
     MUST be included whenever the returned response is stale.

   111 Revalidation failed
     MUST be included if a cache returns a stale response because an
     attempt to revalidate the response failed, due to an inability to
     reach the server.

   112 Disconnected operation
     SHOULD be included if the cache is intentionally disconnected from
     the rest of the network for a period of time.

   113 Heuristic expiration
     MUST be included if the cache heuristically chose a freshness
     lifetime greater than 24 hours and the response's age is greater
     than 24 hours.

   199 Miscellaneous warning
     The warning text MAY include arbitrary information to be presented
     to a human user, or logged. A system receiving this warning MUST
     NOT take any automated action, besides presenting the warning to
     the user.



Fielding, et al.            Standards Track                   [Page 149]

RFC 2616                        HTTP/1.1                       June 1999


   214 Transformation applied
     MUST be added by an intermediate cache or proxy if it applies any
     transformation changing the content-coding (as specified in the
     Content-Encoding header) or media-type (as specified in the
     Content-Type header) of the response, or the entity-body of the
     response, unless this Warning code already appears in the response.

   299 Miscellaneous persistent warning
     The warning text MAY include arbitrary information to be presented
     to a human user, or logged. A system receiving this warning MUST
     NOT take any automated action.

   If an implementation sends a message with one or more Warning headers
   whose version is HTTP/1.0 or lower, then the sender MUST include in
   each warning-value a warn-date that matches the date in the response.

   If an implementation receives a message with a warning-value that
   includes a warn-date, and that warn-date is different from the Date
   value in the response, then that warning-value MUST be deleted from
   the message before storing, forwarding, or using it. (This prevents
   bad consequences of naive caching of Warning header fields.) If all
   of the warning-values are deleted for this reason, the Warning header
   MUST be deleted as well.

