14.35.2 Range Retrieval Requests

   HTTP retrieval requests using conditional or unconditional GET
   methods MAY request one or more sub-ranges of the entity, instead of
   the entire entity, using the Range request header, which applies to
   the entity returned as the result of the request:

      Range = "Range" ":" ranges-specifier



Fielding, et al.            Standards Track                   [Page 139]

RFC 2616                        HTTP/1.1                       June 1999


   A server MAY ignore the Range header. However, HTTP/1.1 origin
   servers and intermediate caches ought to support byte ranges when
   possible, since Range supports efficient recovery from partially
   failed transfers, and supports efficient partial retrieval of large
   entities.

   If the server supports the Range header and the specified range or
   ranges are appropriate for the entity:

      - The presence of a Range header in an unconditional GET modifies
        what is returned if the GET is otherwise successful. In other
        words, the response carries a status code of 206 (Partial
        Content) instead of 200 (OK).

      - The presence of a Range header in a conditional GET (a request
        using one or both of If-Modified-Since and If-None-Match, or
        one or both of If-Unmodified-Since and If-Match) modifies what
        is returned if the GET is otherwise successful and the
        condition is true. It does not affect the 304 (Not Modified)
        response returned if the conditional is false.

   In some cases, it might be more appropriate to use the If-Range
   header (see section 14.27) in addition to the Range header.

   If a proxy that supports ranges receives a Range request, forwards
   the request to an inbound server, and receives an entire entity in
   reply, it SHOULD only return the requested range to its client. It
   SHOULD store the entire received response in its cache if that is
   consistent with its cache allocation policies.

