15.7 Proxies and Caching

   By their very nature, HTTP proxies are men-in-the-middle, and
   represent an opportunity for man-in-the-middle attacks. Compromise of
   the systems on which the proxies run can result in serious security
   and privacy problems. Proxies have access to security-related
   information, personal information about individual users and
   organizations, and proprietary information belonging to users and
   content providers. A compromised proxy, or a proxy implemented or
   configured without regard to security and privacy considerations,
   might be used in the commission of a wide range of potential attacks.

   Proxy operators should protect the systems on which proxies run as
   they would protect any system that contains or transports sensitive
   information. In particular, log information gathered at proxies often
   contains highly sensitive personal information, and/or information
   about organizations. Log information should be carefully guarded, and
   appropriate guidelines for use developed and followed. (Section
   15.1.1).






Fielding, et al.            Standards Track                   [Page 155]

RFC 2616                        HTTP/1.1                       June 1999


   Caching proxies provide additional potential vulnerabilities, since
   the contents of the cache represent an attractive target for
   malicious exploitation. Because cache contents persist after an HTTP
   request is complete, an attack on the cache can reveal information
   long after a user believes that the information has been removed from
   the network. Therefore, cache contents should be protected as
   sensitive information.

   Proxy implementors should consider the privacy and security
   implications of their design and coding decisions, and of the
   configuration options they provide to proxy operators (especially the
   default configuration).

   Users of a proxy need to be aware that they are no trustworthier than
   the people who run the proxy; HTTP itself cannot solve this problem.

   The judicious use of cryptography, when appropriate, may suffice to
   protect against a broad range of security and privacy attacks. Such
   cryptography is beyond the scope of the HTTP/1.1 specification.

