4.3 Message Body

   The message-body (if any) of an HTTP message is used to carry the
   entity-body associated with the request or response. The message-body
   differs from the entity-body only when a transfer-coding has been
   applied, as indicated by the Transfer-Encoding header field (section
   14.41).

       message-body = entity-body
                    | <entity-body encoded as per Transfer-Encoding>

   Transfer-Encoding MUST be used to indicate any transfer-codings
   applied by an application to ensure safe and proper transfer of the
   message. Transfer-Encoding is a property of the message, not of the



Fielding, et al.            Standards Track                    [Page 32]

RFC 2616                        HTTP/1.1                       June 1999


   entity, and thus MAY be added or removed by any application along the
   request/response chain. (However, section 3.6 places restrictions on
   when certain transfer-codings may be used.)

   The rules for when a message-body is allowed in a message differ for
   requests and responses.

   The presence of a message-body in a request is signaled by the
   inclusion of a Content-Length or Transfer-Encoding header field in
   the request's message-headers. A message-body MUST NOT be included in
   a request if the specification of the request method (section 5.1.1)
   does not allow sending an entity-body in requests. A server SHOULD
   read and forward a message-body on any request; if the request method
   does not include defined semantics for an entity-body, then the
   message-body SHOULD be ignored when handling the request.

   For response messages, whether or not a message-body is included with
   a message is dependent on both the request method and the response
   status code (section 6.1.1). All responses to the HEAD request method
   MUST NOT include a message-body, even though the presence of entity-
   header fields might lead one to believe they do. All 1xx
   (informational), 204 (no content), and 304 (not modified) responses
   MUST NOT include a message-body. All other responses do include a
   message-body, although it MAY be of zero length.

