*26.4*	Using Vim from a shell script

Suppose you have a lot of files in which you need to change the string
"-person-" to "Jones" and then print it.  How do you do that?  One way is to
do a lot of typing.  The other is to write a shell script to do the work.
   The Vim editor does a superb job as a screen-oriented editor when using
Normal mode commands.  For batch processing, however, Normal mode commands do
not result in clear, commented command files; so here you will use Ex mode
instead.  This mode gives you a nice command-line interface that makes it easy
to put into a batch file.  ("Ex command" is just another name for a
command-line (:) command.)
   The Ex mode commands you need are as follows: >

	%s/-person-/Jones/g
	write tempfile
	quit

You put these commands in the file "change.vim".  Now to run the editor in
batch mode, use this shell script: >

	for file in *.txt; do
	  vim -e -s $file < change.vim
	  lpr -r tempfile
	done

The for-done loop is a shell construct to repeat the two lines in between,
while the $file variable is set to a different file name each time.
   The second line runs the Vim editor in Ex mode (-e argument) on the file
$file and reads commands from the file "change.vim".  The -s argument tells
Vim to operate in silent mode.  In other words, do not keep outputting the
:prompt, or any other prompt for that matter.
   The "lpr -r tempfile" command prints the resulting "tempfile" and deletes
it (that's what the -r argument does).


READING FROM STDIN

Vim can read text on standard input.  Since the normal way is to read commands
there, you must tell Vim to read text instead.  This is done by passing the
"-" argument in place of a file.  Example: >

	ls | vim -

This allows you to edit the output of the "ls" command, without first saving
the text in a file.
   If you use the standard input to read text from, you can use the "-S"
argument to read a script: >

	producer | vim -S change.vim -


NORMAL MODE SCRIPTS

If you really want to use Normal mode commands in a script, you can use it
like this: >

	vim -s script file.txt ...
<
	Note:
	"-s" has a different meaning when it is used without "-e".  Here it
	means to source the "script" as Normal mode commands.  When used with
	"-e" it means to be silent, and doesn't use the next argument as a
	file name.

The commands in "script" are executed like you typed them.  Don't forget that
a line break is interpreted as pressing <Enter>.  In Normal mode that moves
the cursor to the next line.
   To create the script you can edit the script file and type the commands.
You need to imagine what the result would be, which can be a bit difficult.
Another way is to record the commands while you perform them manually.  This
is how you do that: >

	vim -w script file.txt ...

All typed keys will be written to "script".  If you make a small mistake you
can just continue and remember to edit the script later.
   The "-w" argument appends to an existing script.  That is good when you
want to record the script bit by bit.  If you want to start from scratch and
start all over, use the "-W" argument.  It overwrites any existing file.

