12 Manipulating Variables
*************************

GNU Info uses several internal "variables" whose values are looked at by
various Info commands.  You can change the values of these variables,
and thus change the behavior of Info, if desired.

   There are three ways to set the value of a variable, listed here in
order of precedence:

  1. interactively, using the 'set-variable' command described below;
  2. on the command line, using the '-v' ('--variable') command line
     option (*note variable-assignment::);
  3. in the '#var' section of the '.infokey' file (*note Custom Key
     Bindings::).

'M-x set-variable'
     Read the name of a variable, and the value for it, in the echo area
     and then set the variable to that value.  Completion is available
     when reading the variable name (*note The Echo Area::); completion
     is also available when reading the value when that makes sense.

'M-x describe-variable'
     Read the name of a variable in the echo area and display its value
     and a brief description.

   Here is a list of the variables that you can set in Info.

'automatic-footnotes'
     When set to 'On', footnotes appear and disappear automatically;
     else, they appear at the bottom of the node text.  This variable is
     'Off' by default.  When a node is selected, a window containing the
     footnotes which appear in that node is created, and the footnotes
     are displayed within the new window.  The window that Info creates
     to contain the footnotes is called '*Footnotes*'.  If a node is
     selected which contains no footnotes, and a '*Footnotes*' window is
     on the screen, the '*Footnotes*' window is deleted.  Footnote
     windows created in this fashion are not automatically tiled so that
     they can use as little of the display as is possible.

'automatic-tiling'
     When set to 'On', creating or deleting a window resizes other
     windows.  This variable is 'Off' by default.  Normally, typing 'C-x
     2' divides the current window into two equal parts.  When
     'automatic-tiling' is set to 'On', all of the windows are resized
     automatically, keeping an equal number of lines visible in each
     window.  Any '*Completions*' and '*Footnotes*' windows are
     exceptions to the automatic tiling; they retain their original
     size.

'cursor-movement-scrolls'
     When set to 'On', when cursor movement commands reach the top or
     bottom of a node, another node is loaded depending on the value of
     'scroll-behavior' (see below).  This is the default.  When this
     variable is set to 'Off', cursor movements stop at the top or
     bottom of a node.

'errors-ring-bell'
     When set to 'On' (the default), errors cause the bell to ring.

'follow-strategy'
     When set to 'remain' (the default), Info tries to remain within the
     directory containing the currently displayed Info file when
     following a cross-reference to an external manual, before looking
     for the referenced manual in the search path.  The alternative
     value is 'path', which means to look through the search path right
     away.

     'remain' is intended to be useful for several Texinfo manuals that
     all reference each other and whose versions should match each
     other.  (For example, various manuals relating to a particular
     version of Emacs.)

     The alternative behavior, with 'path', may be useful when your Info
     file search path parallels your command shell's search path, and
     you always want to find documentation of the version of the program
     that the shell would execute.

'gc-compressed-files'
     When set to 'On', Info garbage collects files which had to be
     uncompressed.  The default value of this variable is 'Off'.
     Whenever a node is visited in Info, the Info file containing that
     node is read into memory, and Info reads information about the tags
     and nodes contained in that file.  Once the tags information is
     read by Info, it is never forgotten.  However, the actual text of
     the nodes does not need to be retained unless a particular Info
     window needs it.  For non-compressed files, node text is not
     remembered when it is no longer in use.  But de-compressing a file
     can be a time-consuming operation, and so Info tries hard not to do
     it twice.  This variable tells Info it is okay to garbage collect
     the text of the nodes of a file which was compressed on disk.

'hide-note-references'
     By default, Info displays the contents of Info files mostly
     verbatim, including text that is used by Info readers for
     navigation (for example, marking the location of menus or
     cross-references).  If you set this variable to 'On', some of this
     text is hidden, in a similar way to the 'Info-hide-note-references'
     variable in Emacs (*note (info)Emacs Info Variables::).

'highlight-searches'
     When set to 'On', highlight matches from searching commands (*note
     Searching Commands::).

'infopath-no-defaults'
     Used in conjunction with the 'INFOPATH' environment variable (*note
     INFOPATH::).  When set to 'On', the default documentation directory
     defined when Info was built (e.g., '/usr/share/info') is not added
     to the search path for Info files.

'ISO-Latin'
     The default is 'On', which means that Info accepts and displays
     characters represented by bytes with values 128 and above, such as
     characters in the UTF-8 encoding or in various 8-bit ISO Latin
     characters, as well as allowing you to input such characters.

     The only reason to set this variable to 'Off' would be if your
     terminal set the eighth bit of a byte to represent the Meta key
     being pressed.

'key-time'
     Length of time in milliseconds to wait for the next byte of a byte
     sequence generated by a key (or key chord) on the keyboard.  For
     example, if the 'down' key generates the byte sequence '<ESC> O B',
     and the two bytes '<ESC> O' have been received, then a 'B' byte
     would have to be received within this length of time for a key
     press of 'down' to be registered.  You may wish to set this
     variable to a larger value for slow terminals or network
     connections.

     If you set this variable to 0, it's unspecified whether a
     recognized byte sequence representing a key takes precedence over
     another recognized sequence representing a key that is an initial
     subsequence of the first sequence.  In some cases, you may be able
     to make pressing a special key on the keyboard that Info doesn't
     know about (for example, a function key) cause a command to be
     executed by setting this variable to 0, and giving the byte
     sequence the key sends in '.infokey'.  (*Note Custom Key
     Bindings::.)

'min-search-length'
     Minimum length of a search string (default 1).  Attempts to
     initiate a search for a string (or regular expression) shorter than
     this value, result in an error.

'mouse'
     What method to use to get input from a mouse device.  The default
     value is 'Off'.  Set this variable to 'normal-tracking' to make
     Info use "normal tracking mode" if it detects that the terminal
     supports it.  This enables you to scroll the contents of the active
     window with a mouse scrollwheel.

     On terminal emulators running under the X Window System, such as
     'xterm', you can usually select text with the mouse.  However,
     mouse tracking mode may interfere with this.  When this happens,
     you may be able to select text by holding down the 'Shift' key
     while clicking and dragging.

'nodeline'
     How to print the node header line that appears at the top of each
     node.  By default only the pointers to neighbouring nodes are
     displayed (the "Next", "Prev", and "Up" pointers): this corresponds
     to the 'pointers' value for this variable.  To print the entire
     line, set 'nodeline' to the value 'print', which will include the
     filename and name of the node.  To not display the header line at
     all, use the value 'no'.

'scroll-behavior'
'scroll-behaviour'
     The two variable names are synonymous.  Control what happens when
     scrolling commands are used at the end or beginning of a node
     (*note Scrolling Commands::).  The default value for this variable
     is 'Continuous'.  Possible values:

     'Continuous'
          Try to get the first item in this node's menu, or failing
          that, the 'Next' node, or failing that, the 'Next' of the 'Up'
          node.  This behavior is identical to using the ']'
          ('global-next-node') and '[' ('global-prev-node') commands.

     'Next Only'
          Only try to get the 'Next' node.

     'Page Only'
          Just stop, changing nothing.  With this value, no scrolling
          command can change the node that is being viewed.

     This variable also affects cursor movement commands (*note Cursor
     Commands::) unless the 'cursor-movement-scrolls' variable is set to
     'Off'.  *Note cursor-movement-scrolls::.

'scroll-last-node'
     Control what happens when a scrolling command is issued at the end
     of the last node.  Possible values are:

     'Stop'
          Do not scroll.  Display the 'No more nodes within this
          document' message.  This is the default.

     'Top'
          Go to the top node of the document.

     This variable is in effect only if 'scroll-behavior' is set to
     'Continuous'.

'scroll-step'
     The number of lines to scroll to bring the cursor back into the
     window.  The default value of this variable is 1, which causes a
     kind of "smooth scrolling" which some people prefer.  Scrolling
     happens automatically if the cursor has moved out of the visible
     portion of the node text.

     If the variable 'scroll-step' is 0, the cursor (and the text it is
     attached to) is placed in the centre of the window.

'search-skip-screen'
     Set the starting point of repeated searches (*note
     repeated-search::).  When set to 'Off' (the default), repeated
     searches start at the position immediately following (when
     searching in forward direction), or immediately preceding (when
     searching backwards) the cursor.  When set to 'On', repeated
     searches omit lines visibly displayed on the screen.  In other
     words, forward searches ('}') start at the beginning of the next
     page, and backward searches ('{') start at the end of the previous
     page.

'show-index-match'
     When set to 'On' (the default), the portion of the matched search
     string that you typed is indicated (by displaying it in the
     "opposite" case) in the result message (*note 'next-index-match':
     Searching Commands.).

'visible-bell'
     When set to 'On', Info attempts to flash the screen instead of
     ringing the bell.  This variable is 'Off' by default.  If the
     terminal does not allow flashing, this variable has no effect.
     (But you can still make Info perform quietly by setting the
     'errors-ring-bell' variable to 'Off'; or using an external command
     to mute the bell, e.g., 'xset b 0 0 0'.)

File: info-stnd.info,  Node: Colors and Styles,  Next: Custom Key Bindings,  Prev: Variables,  Up: Top

