4.2 Analysis Options
====================

'-a'
'--no-static'
     The '-a' option causes 'gprof' to suppress the printing of
     statically declared (private) functions.  (These are functions
     whose names are not listed as global, and which are not visible
     outside the file/function/block where they were defined.)  Time
     spent in these functions, calls to/from them, etc., will all be
     attributed to the function that was loaded directly before it in
     the executable file.  This option affects both the flat profile and
     the call graph.

'-c'
'--static-call-graph'
     The '-c' option causes the call graph of the program to be
     augmented by a heuristic which examines the text space of the
     object file and identifies function calls in the binary machine
     code.  Since normal call graph records are only generated when
     functions are entered, this option identifies children that could
     have been called, but never were.  Calls to functions that were not
     compiled with profiling enabled are also identified, but only if
     symbol table entries are present for them.  Calls to dynamic
     library routines are typically _not_ found by this option.  Parents
     or children identified via this heuristic are indicated in the call
     graph with call counts of '0'.

'-D'
'--ignore-non-functions'
     The '-D' option causes 'gprof' to ignore symbols which are not
     known to be functions.  This option will give more accurate profile
     data on systems where it is supported (Solaris and HPUX for
     example).

'-k FROM/TO'
     The '-k' option allows you to delete from the call graph any arcs
     from symbols matching symspec FROM to those matching symspec TO.

'-l'
'--line'
     The '-l' option enables line-by-line profiling, which causes
     histogram hits to be charged to individual source code lines,
     instead of functions.  This feature only works with programs
     compiled by older versions of the 'gcc' compiler.  Newer versions
     of 'gcc' are designed to work with the 'gcov' tool instead.

     If the program was compiled with basic-block counting enabled, this
     option will also identify how many times each line of code was
     executed.  While line-by-line profiling can help isolate where in a
     large function a program is spending its time, it also
     significantly increases the running time of 'gprof', and magnifies
     statistical inaccuracies.  *Note Statistical Sampling Error:
     Sampling Error.

'--inline-file-names'
     This option causes 'gprof' to print the source file after each
     symbol in both the flat profile and the call graph.  The full path
     to the file is printed if used with the '-L' option.

'-m NUM'
'--min-count=NUM'
     This option affects execution count output only.  Symbols that are
     executed less than NUM times are suppressed.

'-nSYMSPEC'
'--time=SYMSPEC'
     The '-n' option causes 'gprof', in its call graph analysis, to only
     propagate times for symbols matching SYMSPEC.

'-NSYMSPEC'
'--no-time=SYMSPEC'
     The '-n' option causes 'gprof', in its call graph analysis, not to
     propagate times for symbols matching SYMSPEC.

'-SFILENAME'
'--external-symbol-table=FILENAME'
     The '-S' option causes 'gprof' to read an external symbol table
     file, such as '/proc/kallsyms', rather than read the symbol table
     from the given object file (the default is 'a.out').  This is
     useful for profiling kernel modules.

'-z'
'--display-unused-functions'
     If you give the '-z' option, 'gprof' will mention all functions in
     the flat profile, even those that were never called, and that had
     no time spent in them.  This is useful in conjunction with the '-c'
     option for discovering which routines were never called.

File: gprof.info,  Node: Miscellaneous Options,  Next: Deprecated Options,  Prev: Analysis Options,  Up: Invoking

