11 GRUB image files
*******************

GRUB consists of several images: a variety of bootstrap images for
starting GRUB in various ways, a kernel image, and a set of modules
which are combined with the kernel image to form a core image.  Here is
a short overview of them.

'boot.img'
     On PC BIOS systems, this image is the first part of GRUB to start.
     It is written to a master boot record (MBR) or to the boot sector
     of a partition.  Because a PC boot sector is 512 bytes, the size of
     this image is exactly 512 bytes.

     The sole function of 'boot.img' is to read the first sector of the
     core image from a local disk and jump to it.  Because of the size
     restriction, 'boot.img' cannot understand any file system
     structure, so 'grub2-install' hardcodes the location of the first
     sector of the core image into 'boot.img' when installing GRUB.

'diskboot.img'
     This image is used as the first sector of the core image when
     booting from a hard disk.  It reads the rest of the core image into
     memory and starts the kernel.  Since file system handling is not
     yet available, it encodes the location of the core image using a
     block list format.

'cdboot.img'
     This image is used as the first sector of the core image when
     booting from a CD-ROM drive.  It performs a similar function to
     'diskboot.img'.

'pxeboot.img'
     This image is used as the start of the core image when booting from
     the network using PXE. *Note Network::.

'lnxboot.img'
     This image may be placed at the start of the core image in order to
     make GRUB look enough like a Linux kernel that it can be booted by
     LILO using an 'image=' section.

'kernel.img'
     This image contains GRUB's basic run-time facilities: frameworks
     for device and file handling, environment variables, the rescue
     mode command-line parser, and so on.  It is rarely used directly,
     but is built into all core images.

'core.img'
     This is the core image of GRUB. It is built dynamically from the
     kernel image and an arbitrary list of modules by the
     'grub2-mkimage' program.  Usually, it contains enough modules to
     access '/boot/grub', and loads everything else (including menu
     handling, the ability to load target operating systems, and so on)
     from the file system at run-time.  The modular design allows the
     core image to be kept small, since the areas of disk where it must
     be installed are often as small as 32KB.

     *Note BIOS installation::, for details on where the core image can
     be installed on PC systems.

'*.mod'
     Everything else in GRUB resides in dynamically loadable modules.
     These are often loaded automatically, or built into the core image
     if they are essential, but may also be loaded manually using the
     'insmod' command (*note insmod::).

