17.2 Filesystems
================

NTFS, JFS, UDF, HFS+, exFAT, long filenames in FAT, Joliet part of
ISO9660 are treated as UTF-16 as per specification.  AFS and BFS are
read as UTF-8, again according to specification.  BtrFS, cpio, tar,
squash4, minix, minix2, minix3, ROMFS, ReiserFS, XFS, ext2, ext3, ext4,
FAT (short names), F2FS, RockRidge part of ISO9660, nilfs2, UFS1, UFS2
and ZFS are assumed to be UTF-8.  This might be false on systems
configured with legacy charset but as long as the charset used is
superset of ASCII you should be able to access ASCII-named files.  And
it's recommended to configure your system to use UTF-8 to access the
filesystem, convmv may help with migration.  ISO9660 (plain) filenames
are specified as being ASCII or being described with unspecified escape
sequences.  GRUB assumes that the ISO9660 names are UTF-8 (since any
ASCII is valid UTF-8).  There are some old CD-ROMs which use CP437 in
non-compliant way.  You're still able to access files with names
containing only ASCII characters on such filesystems though.  You're
also able to access any file if the filesystem contains valid Joliet
(UTF-16) or RockRidge (UTF-8).  AFFS, SFS and HFS never use unicode and
GRUB assumes them to be in Latin1, Latin1 and MacRoman respectively.
GRUB handles filesystem case-insensitivity however no attempt is
performed at case conversion of international characters so e.g.  a file
named lowercase greek alpha is treated as different from the one named
as uppercase alpha.  The filesystems in questions are NTFS (except POSIX
namespace), HFS+ (configurable at mkfs time, default insensitive), SFS
(configurable at mkfs time, default insensitive), JFS (configurable at
mkfs time, default sensitive), HFS, AFFS, FAT, exFAT and ZFS
(configurable on per-subvolume basis by property "casesensitivity",
default sensitive).  On ZFS subvolumes marked as case insensitive files
containing lowercase international characters are inaccessible.  Also
like all supported filesystems except HFS+ and ZFS (configurable on
per-subvolume basis by property "normalization", default none) GRUB
makes no attempt at check of canonical equivalence so a file name
u-diaresis is treated as distinct from u+combining diaresis.  This
however means that in order to access file on HFS+ its name must be
specified in normalisation form D. On normalized ZFS subvolumes
filenames out of normalisation are inaccessible.

