7. STUPID TRICKS Sampler
       Many of these tricks work best when you give top a scheduling boost.  So plan on starting him with a nice value of -10, assuming you've got the authority.

   7a. Kernel Magic
       For these stupid tricks, top needs full-screen mode.

       ·  The user interface, through prompts and help, intentionally implies that the delay interval is limited to tenths of a second.  However, you're free to set any  desired  delay.
          If you want to see Linux at his scheduling best, try a delay of .09 seconds or less.

          For this experiment, under x-windows open an xterm and maximize it.  Then do the following:
            . provide a scheduling boost and tiny delay via:
                nice -n -10 top -d.09
            . keep sorted column highlighting Off so as to
              minimize path length
            . turn On reverse row highlighting for emphasis
            . try various sort columns (TIME/MEM work well),
              and normal or reverse sorts to bring the most
              active processes into view

          What you'll see is a very busy Linux doing what he's always done for you, but there was no program available to illustrate this.

       ·  Under  an  xterm using `white-on-black' colors, on top's Color Mapping screen set the task color to black and be sure that task highlighting is set to bold, not reverse.  Then
          set the delay interval to around .3 seconds.

          After bringing the most active processes into view, what you'll see are the ghostly images of just the currently running tasks.

       ·  Delete the existing rcfile, or create a new symlink.  Start this new version then type `T' (a secret key, see topic 4c. Task Area Commands, SORTING) followed by `W'  and  `q'.
          Finally, restart the program with -d0 (zero delay).

          Your display will be refreshed at three times the rate of the former top, a 300% speed advantage.  As top climbs the TIME ladder, be as patient as you can while speculating on
          whether or not top will ever reach the top.

   7b. Bouncing Windows
       For these stupid tricks, top needs alternate-display mode.

       ·  With 3 or 4 task displays visible, pick any window other than the last and turn idle processes Off using the `i' command toggle.  Depending on where you applied `i', sometimes
          several task displays are bouncing and sometimes it's like an accordion, as top tries his best to allocate space.

       ·  Set  each window's summary lines differently: one with no memory (`m'); another with no states (`t'); maybe one with nothing at all, just the message line.  Then hold down `a'
          or `w' and watch a variation on bouncing windows  --  hopping windows.

       ·  Display all 4 windows and for each, in turn, set idle processes to Off using the `i' command toggle.  You've just entered the "extreme bounce" zone.

   7c. The Big Bird Window
       This stupid trick also requires alternate-display mode.

       ·  Display all 4 windows and make sure that 1:Def is the `current' window.  Then, keep increasing window size with the `n' interactive command until all the other  task  displays
          are "pushed out of the nest".

          When they've all been displaced, toggle between all visible/invisible windows using the `_' command toggle.  Then ponder this:
             is top fibbing or telling honestly your imposed truth?

   7d. The Ol' Switcheroo
       This stupid trick works best without alternate-display mode, since justification is active on a per window basis.

       ·  Start top and make COMMAND the last (rightmost) column displayed.  If necessary, use the `c' command toggle to display command lines and ensure that forest view mode is active
          with the `V' command toggle.

          Then use the up/down arrow keys to position the display so that some truncated command lines are shown (`+' in last position).  You may have to resize your  xterm  to  produce
          truncation.

          Lastly, use the `j' command toggle to make the COMMAND column right justified.

          Now use the right arrow key to reach the COMMAND column.  Continuing with the right arrow key, watch closely the direction of travel for the command lines being shown.

             some lines travel left, while others travel right

             eventually all lines will Switcheroo, and move right

