5.3.1. SIG records and RRSets

   A SIG record provides signature (validation) data for another RRSet
   in the DNS.  Where a zone has been signed, every RRSet in the zone
   will have had a SIG record associated with it.  The data type of the
   RRSet is included in the data of the SIG RR, to indicate with which
   particular RRSet this SIG record is associated.  Were the rules above
   applied, whenever a SIG record was included with a response to
   validate that response, the SIG records for all other RRSets
   associated with the appropriate node would also need to be included.
   In some cases, this could be a very large number of records, not
   helped by their being rather large RRs.

   Thus, it is specifically permitted for the authority section to
   contain only those SIG RRs with the "type covered" field equal to the
   type field of an answer being returned.  However, where SIG records
   are being returned in the answer section, in response to a query for
   SIG records, or a query for all records associated with a name
   (type=ANY) the entire SIG RRSet must be included, as for any other RR
   type.

   Servers that receive responses containing SIG records in the
   authority section, or (probably incorrectly) as additional data, must
   understand that the entire RRSet has almost certainly not been
   included.  Thus, they must not cache that SIG record in a way that
   would permit it to be returned should a query for SIG records be
   received at that server.  RFC2065 actually requires that SIG queries
   be directed only to authoritative servers to avoid the problems that
   could be caused here, and while servers exist that do not understand
   the special properties of SIG records, this will remain necessary.
   However, careful design of SIG record processing in new
   implementations should permit this restriction to be relaxed in the
   future, so resolvers do not need to treat SIG record queries
   specially.



Elz & Bush                  Standards Track                     [Page 5]

RFC 2181        Clarifications to the DNS Specification        July 1997


   It has been occasionally stated that a received request for a SIG
   record should be forwarded to an authoritative server, rather than
   being answered from data in the cache.  This is not necessary - a
   server that has the knowledge of SIG as a special case for processing
   this way would be better to correctly cache SIG records, taking into
   account their characteristics.  Then the server can determine when it
   is safe to reply from the cache, and when the answer is not available
   and the query must be forwarded.

