5.4.1. Ranking data

   When considering whether to accept an RRSet in a reply, or retain an
   RRSet already in its cache instead, a server should consider the
   relative likely trustworthiness of the various data.  An
   authoritative answer from a reply should replace cached data that had
   been obtained from additional information in an earlier reply.
   However additional information from a reply will be ignored if the
   cache contains data from an authoritative answer or a zone file.

   The accuracy of data available is assumed from its source.
   Trustworthiness shall be, in order from most to least:

     + Data from a primary zone file, other than glue data,
     + Data from a zone transfer, other than glue,
     + The authoritative data included in the answer section of an
       authoritative reply.
     + Data from the authority section of an authoritative answer,
     + Glue from a primary zone, or glue from a zone transfer,
     + Data from the answer section of a non-authoritative answer, and
       non-authoritative data from the answer section of authoritative
       answers,
     + Additional information from an authoritative answer,
       Data from the authority section of a non-authoritative answer,
       Additional information from non-authoritative answers.

   Note that the answer section of an authoritative answer normally
   contains only authoritative data.  However when the name sought is an
   alias (see section 10.1.1) only the record describing that alias is
   necessarily authoritative.  Clients should assume that other records
   may have come from the server's cache.  Where authoritative answers
   are required, the client should query again, using the canonical name
   associated with the alias.

   Unauthenticated RRs received and cached from the least trustworthy of
   those groupings, that is data from the additional data section, and
   data from the authority section of a non-authoritative answer, should
   not be cached in such a way that they would ever be returned as
   answers to a received query.  They may be returned as additional
   information where appropriate.  Ignoring this would allow the
   trustworthiness of relatively untrustworthy data to be increased
   without cause or excuse.

   When DNS security [RFC2065] is in use, and an authenticated reply has
   been received and verified, the data thus authenticated shall be
   considered more trustworthy than unauthenticated data of the same
   type.  Note that throughout this document, "authoritative" means a
   reply with the AA bit set.  DNSSEC uses trusted chains of SIG and KEY



Elz & Bush                  Standards Track                     [Page 7]

RFC 2181        Clarifications to the DNS Specification        July 1997


   records to determine the authenticity of data, the AA bit is almost
   irrelevant.  However DNSSEC aware servers must still correctly set
   the AA bit in responses to enable correct operation with servers that
   are not security aware (almost all currently).

   Note that, glue excluded, it is impossible for data from two
   correctly configured primary zone files, two correctly configured
   secondary zones (data from zone transfers) or data from correctly
   configured primary and secondary zones to ever conflict.  Where glue
   for the same name exists in multiple zones, and differs in value, the
   nameserver should select data from a primary zone file in preference
   to secondary, but otherwise may choose any single set of such data.
   Choosing that which appears to come from a source nearer the
   authoritative data source may make sense where that can be
   determined.  Choosing primary data over secondary allows the source
   of incorrect glue data to be discovered more readily, when a problem
   with such data exists.  Where a server can detect from two zone files
   that one or more are incorrectly configured, so as to create
   conflicts, it should refuse to load the zones determined to be
   erroneous, and issue suitable diagnostics.

   "Glue" above includes any record in a zone file that is not properly
   part of that zone, including nameserver records of delegated sub-
   zones (NS records), address records that accompany those NS records
   (A, AAAA, etc), and any other stray data that might appear.

