2.2.1 - Special Handling of No Data

   There are a large number of resolvers currently in existence that
   fail to correctly detect and process all forms of NODATA response.
   Some resolvers treat a TYPE 1 NODATA response as a referral.  To
   alleviate this problem it is recommended that servers that are
   authoritative for the NODATA response only send TYPE 2 NODATA
   responses, that is the authority section contains a SOA record and no
   NS records.  Sending a TYPE 1 NODATA response from a non-
   authoritative server to one of these resolvers will only result in an
   unnecessary query.  If a server is listed as a FORWARDER for another
   resolver it may also be necessary to disable the sending of TYPE 1
   NODATA response for non-authoritative NODATA responses.




Andrews                     Standards Track                     [Page 7]

RFC 2308                       DNS NCACHE                     March 1998


   Some name servers fail to set the RCODE to NXDOMAIN in the presence
   of CNAMEs in the answer section.  If a definitive NXDOMAIN / NODATA
   answer is required in this case the resolver must query again using
   the QNAME as the query label.

3 - Negative Answers from Authoritative Servers

   Name servers authoritative for a zone MUST include the SOA record of
   the zone in the authority section of the response when reporting an
   NXDOMAIN or indicating that no data of the requested type exists.
   This is required so that the response may be cached.  The TTL of this
   record is set from the minimum of the MINIMUM field of the SOA record
   and the TTL of the SOA itself, and indicates how long a resolver may
   cache the negative answer.  The TTL SIG record associated with the
   SOA record should also be trimmed in line with the SOA's TTL.

   If the containing zone is signed [RFC2065] the SOA and appropriate
   NXT and SIG records MUST be added.

4 - SOA Minimum Field

   The SOA minimum field has been overloaded in the past to have three
   different meanings, the minimum TTL value of all RRs in a zone, the
   default TTL of RRs which did not contain a TTL value and the TTL of
   negative responses.

   Despite being the original defined meaning, the first of these, the
   minimum TTL value of all RRs in a zone, has never in practice been
   used and is hereby deprecated.

   The second, the default TTL of RRs which contain no explicit TTL in
   the master zone file, is relevant only at the primary server.  After
   a zone transfer all RRs have explicit TTLs and it is impossible to
   determine whether the TTL for a record was explicitly set or derived
   from the default after a zone transfer.  Where a server does not
   require RRs to include the TTL value explicitly, it should provide a
   mechanism, not being the value of the MINIMUM field of the SOA
   record, from which the missing TTL values are obtained.  How this is
   done is implementation dependent.

   The Master File format [RFC 1035 Section 5] is extended to include
   the following directive:

                           $TTL <TTL> [comment]







Andrews                     Standards Track                     [Page 8]

RFC 2308                       DNS NCACHE                     March 1998


   All resource records appearing after the directive, and which do not
   explicitly include a TTL value, have their TTL set to the TTL given
   in the $TTL directive.  SIG records without a explicit TTL get their
   TTL from the "original TTL" of the SIG record [RFC 2065 Section 4.5].

   The remaining of the current meanings, of being the TTL to be used
   for negative responses, is the new defined meaning of the SOA minimum
   field.

5 - Caching Negative Answers

   Like normal answers negative answers have a time to live (TTL).  As
   there is no record in the answer section to which this TTL can be
   applied, the TTL must be carried by another method.  This is done by
   including the SOA record from the zone in the authority section of
   the reply.  When the authoritative server creates this record its TTL
   is taken from the minimum of the SOA.MINIMUM field and SOA's TTL.
   This TTL decrements in a similar manner to a normal cached answer and
   upon reaching zero (0) indicates the cached negative answer MUST NOT
   be used again.

   A negative answer that resulted from a name error (NXDOMAIN) should
   be cached such that it can be retrieved and returned in response to
   another query for the same <QNAME, QCLASS> that resulted in the
   cached negative response.

   A negative answer that resulted from a no data error (NODATA) should
   be cached such that it can be retrieved and returned in response to
   another query for the same <QNAME, QTYPE, QCLASS> that resulted in
   the cached negative response.

   The NXT record, if it exists in the authority section of a negative
   answer received, MUST be stored such that it can be be located and
   returned with SOA record in the authority section, as should any SIG
   records in the authority section.  For NXDOMAIN answers there is no
   "necessary" obvious relationship between the NXT records and the
   QNAME.  The NXT record MUST have the same owner name as the query
   name for NODATA responses.

   Negative responses without SOA records SHOULD NOT be cached as there
   is no way to prevent the negative responses looping forever between a
   pair of servers even with a short TTL.

   Despite the DNS forming a tree of servers, with various mis-
   configurations it is possible to form a loop in the query graph, e.g.
   two servers listing each other as forwarders, various lame server
   configurations.  Without a TTL count down a cache negative response




Andrews                     Standards Track                     [Page 9]

RFC 2308                       DNS NCACHE                     March 1998


   when received by the next server would have its TTL reset.  This
   negative indication could then live forever circulating between the
   servers involved.

   As with caching positive responses it is sensible for a resolver to
   limit for how long it will cache a negative response as the protocol
   supports caching for up to 68 years.  Such a limit should not be
   greater than that applied to positive answers and preferably be
   tunable.  Values of one to three hours have been found to work well
   and would make sensible a default.  Values exceeding one day have
   been found to be problematic.

6 - Negative answers from the cache

   When a server, in answering a query, encounters a cached negative
   response it MUST add the cached SOA record to the authority section
   of the response with the TTL decremented by the amount of time it was
   stored in the cache.  This allows the NXDOMAIN / NODATA response to
   time out correctly.

   If a NXT record was cached along with SOA record it MUST be added to
   the authority section.  If a SIG record was cached along with a NXT
   record it SHOULD be added to the authority section.

   As with all answers coming from the cache, negative answers SHOULD
   have an implicit referral built into the answer.  This enables the
   resolver to locate an authoritative source.  An implicit referral is
   characterised by NS records in the authority section referring the
   resolver towards a authoritative source.  NXDOMAIN types 1 and 4
   responses contain implicit referrals as does NODATA type 1 response.

7 - Other Negative Responses

   Caching of other negative responses is not covered by any existing
   RFC.  There is no way to indicate a desired TTL in these responses.
   Care needs to be taken to ensure that there are not forwarding loops.

