7.2 Dead / Unreachable Server (OPTIONAL)

   Dead / Unreachable servers are servers that fail to respond in any
   way to a query or where the transport layer has provided an
   indication that the server does not exist or is unreachable.  A
   server may be deemed to be dead or unreachable if it has not
   responded to an outstanding query within 120 seconds.

   Examples of transport layer indications are:

      ICMP error messages indicating host, net or port unreachable.
      TCP resets
      IP stack error messages providing similar indications to those above.

   A server MAY cache a dead server indication.  If it does so it MUST
   NOT be deemed dead for longer than five (5) minutes.  The indication
   MUST be stored against query tuple <query name, type, class, server
   IP address> unless there was a transport layer indication that the
   server does not exist, in which case it applies to all queries to
   that specific IP address.

8 - Changes from RFC 1034

   Negative caching in resolvers is no-longer optional, if a resolver
   caches anything it must also cache negative answers.

   Non-authoritative negative answers MAY be cached.

   The SOA record from the authority section MUST be cached.  Name error
   indications must be cached against the tuple <query name, QCLASS>.
   No data indications must be cached against <query name, QTYPE,
   QCLASS> tuple.

   A cached SOA record must be added to the response.  This was
   explicitly not allowed because previously the distinction between a
   normal cached SOA record, and the SOA cached as a result of a
   negative response was not made, and simply extracting a normal cached
   SOA and adding that to a cached negative response causes problems.



Andrews                     Standards Track                    [Page 11]

RFC 2308                       DNS NCACHE                     March 1998


   The $TTL TTL directive was added to the master file format.

9 - History of Negative Caching

   This section presents a potted history of negative caching in the DNS
   and forms no part of the technical specification of negative caching.

   It is interesting to note that the same concepts were re-invented in
   both the CHIVES and BIND servers.

   The history of the early CHIVES work (Section 9.1) was supplied by
   Rob Austein <sra@epilogue.com> and is reproduced here in the form in
   which he supplied it [MPA].

   Sometime around the spring of 1985, I mentioned to Paul Mockapetris
   that our experience with his JEEVES DNS resolver had pointed out the
   need for some kind of negative caching scheme.  Paul suggested that
   we simply cache authoritative errors, using the SOA MINIMUM value for
   the zone that would have contained the target RRs.  I'm pretty sure
   that this conversation took place before RFC-973 was written, but it
   was never clear to me whether this idea was something that Paul came
   up with on the spot in response to my question or something he'd
   already been planning to put into the document that became RFC-973.
   In any case, neither of us was entirely sure that the SOA MINIMUM
   value was really the right metric to use, but it was available and
   was under the control of the administrator of the target zone, both
   of which seemed to us at the time to be important feature.

   Late in 1987, I released the initial beta-test version of CHIVES, the
   DNS resolver I'd written to replace Paul's JEEVES resolver.  CHIVES
   included a search path mechanism that was used pretty heavily at
   several sites (including my own), so CHIVES also included a negative
   caching mechanism based on SOA MINIMUM values.  The basic strategy
   was to cache authoritative error codes keyed by the exact query
   parameters (QNAME, QCLASS, and QTYPE), with a cache TTL equal to the
   SOA MINIMUM value.  CHIVES did not attempt to track down SOA RRs if
   they weren't supplied in the authoritative response, so it never
   managed to completely eliminate the gratuitous DNS error message
   traffic, but it did help considerably.  Keep in mind that this was
   happening at about the same time as the near-collapse of the ARPANET
   due to congestion caused by exponential growth and the the "old"
   (pre-VJ) TCP retransmission algorithm, so negative caching resulted
   in drasticly better DNS response time for our users, mailer daemons,
   etcetera.







Andrews                     Standards Track                    [Page 12]

RFC 2308                       DNS NCACHE                     March 1998


   As far as I know, CHIVES was the first resolver to implement negative
   caching.  CHIVES was developed during the twilight years of TOPS-20,
   so it never ran on very many machines, but the few machines that it
   did run on were the ones that were too critical to shut down quickly
   no matter how much it cost to keep them running.  So what few users
   we did have tended to drive CHIVES pretty hard.  Several interesting
   bits of DNS technology resulted from that, but the one that's
   relevant here is the MAXTTL configuration parameter.

   Experience with JEEVES had already shown that RRs often showed up
   with ridiculously long TTLs (99999999 was particularly popular for
   many years, due to bugs in the code and documentation of several
   early versions of BIND), and that robust software that blindly
   believed such TTLs could create so many strange failures that it was
   often necessary to reboot the resolver frequently just to clear this
   garbage out of the cache.  So CHIVES had a configuration parameter
   "MAXTTL", which specified the maximum "reasonable" TTL in a received
   RR.  RRs with TTLs greater than MAXTTL would either have their TTLs
   reduced to MAXTTL or would be discarded entirely, depending on the
   setting of another configuration parameter.

   When we started getting field experience with CHIVES's negative
   caching code, it became clear that the SOA MINIMUM value was often
   large enough to cause the same kinds of problems for negative caching
   as the huge TTLs in RRs had for normal caching (again, this was in
   part due to a bug in several early versions of BIND, where a
   secondary server would authoritatively deny all knowledge of its
   zones if it couldn't contact the primaries on reboot).  So we started
   running the negative cache TTLs through the MAXTTL check too, and
   continued to experiment.

   The configuration that seemed to work best on WSMR-SIMTEL20.ARMY.MIL
   (last of the major Internet TOPS-20 machines to be shut down, thus
   the last major user of CHIVES, thus the place where we had the
   longest experimental baseline) was to set MAXTTL to about three days.
   Most of the traffic initiated by SIMTEL20 in its last years was
   mail-related, and the mail queue timeout was set to one week, so this
   gave a "stuck" message several tries at complete DNS resolution,
   without bogging down the system with a lot of useless queries.  Since
   (for reasons that now escape me) we only had the single MAXTTL
   parameter rather than separate ones for positive and negative
   caching, it's not clear how much effect this setting of MAXTTL had on
   the negative caching code.

   CHIVES also included a second, somewhat controversial mechanism which
   took the place of negative caching in some cases.  The CHIVES
   resolver daemon could be configured to load DNS master files, giving
   it the ability to act as what today would be called a "stealth



Andrews                     Standards Track                    [Page 13]

RFC 2308                       DNS NCACHE                     March 1998


   secondary".  That is, when configured in this way, the resolver had
   direct access to authoritative information for heavily-used zones.
   The search path mechanisms in CHIVES reflected this: there were
   actually two separate search paths, one of which only searched local
   authoritative zone data, and one which could generate normal
   iterative queries.  This cut down on the need for negative caching in
   cases where usage was predictably heavy (e.g., the resolver on
   XX.LCS.MIT.EDU always loaded the zone files for both LCS.MIT.EDU and
   AI.MIT.EDU and put both of these suffixes into the "local" search
   path, since between them the hosts in these two zones accounted for
   the bulk of the DNS traffic).  Not all sites running CHIVES chose to
   use this feature; C.CS.CMU.EDU, for example, chose to use the
   "remote" search path for everything because there were too many
   different sub-zones at CMU for zone shadowing to be practical for
   them, so they relied pretty heavily on negative caching even for
   local traffic.

   Overall, I still think the basic design we used for negative caching
   was pretty reasonable: the zone administrator specified how long to
   cache negative answers, and the resolver configuration chose the
   actual cache time from the range between zero and the period
   specified by the zone administrator.  There are a lot of details I'd
   do differently now (like using a new SOA field instead of overloading
   the MINIMUM field), but after more than a decade, I'd be more worried
   if we couldn't think of at least a few improvements.

