A module version is defined by a tree of source files, with a go.mod
file in its root. When the go command is run, it looks in the current
directory and then successive parent directories to find the go.mod
marking the root of the main (current) module.

The go.mod file itself is line-oriented, with // comments but
no /* */ comments. Each line holds a single directive, made up of a
verb followed by arguments. For example:

	module my/thing
	go 1.12
	require other/thing v1.0.2
	require new/thing/v2 v2.3.4
	exclude old/thing v1.2.3
	replace bad/thing v1.4.5 => good/thing v1.4.5

The verbs are
	module, to define the module path;
	go, to set the expected language version;
	require, to require a particular module at a given version or later;
	exclude, to exclude a particular module version from use; and
	replace, to replace a module version with a different module version.
Exclude and replace apply only in the main module's go.mod and are ignored
in dependencies.  See https://research.swtch.com/vgo-mvs for details.

The leading verb can be factored out of adjacent lines to create a block,
like in Go imports:

	require (
		new/thing v2.3.4
		old/thing v1.2.3
	)

The go.mod file is designed both to be edited directly and to be
easily updated by tools. The 'go mod edit' command can be used to
parse and edit the go.mod file from programs and tools.
See 'go help mod edit'.

The go command automatically updates go.mod each time it uses the
module graph, to make sure go.mod always accurately reflects reality
and is properly formatted. For example, consider this go.mod file:

        module M

        require (
                A v1
                B v1.0.0
                C v1.0.0
                D v1.2.3
                E dev
        )

        exclude D v1.2.3

The update rewrites non-canonical version identifiers to semver form,
so A's v1 becomes v1.0.0 and E's dev becomes the pseudo-version for the
latest commit on the dev branch, perhaps v0.0.0-20180523231146-b3f5c0f6e5f1.

The update modifies requirements to respect exclusions, so the
requirement on the excluded D v1.2.3 is updated to use the next
available version of D, perhaps D v1.2.4 or D v1.3.0.

The update removes redundant or misleading requirements.
For example, if A v1.0.0 itself requires B v1.2.0 and C v1.0.0,
then go.mod's requirement of B v1.0.0 is misleading (superseded by
A's need for v1.2.0), and its requirement of C v1.0.0 is redundant
(implied by A's need for the same version), so both will be removed.
If module M contains packages that directly import packages from B or
C, then the requirements will be kept but updated to the actual
versions being used.

Finally, the update reformats the go.mod in a canonical formatting, so
that future mechanical changes will result in minimal diffs.

Because the module graph defines the meaning of import statements, any
commands that load packages also use and therefore update go.mod,
including go build, go get, go install, go list, go test, go mod graph,
go mod tidy, and go mod why.

The expected language version, set by the go directive, determines
which language features are available when compiling the module.
Language features available in that version will be available for use.
Language features removed in earlier versions, or added in later versions,
will not be available. Note that the language version does not affect
build tags, which are determined by the Go release being used.
