2. Starting Vim						*windows-starting*

By default, Vim starts with one window, just like Vi.

The "-o" and "-O" arguments to Vim can be used to open a window for each file
in the argument list.  The "-o" argument will split the windows horizontally;
the "-O" argument will split the windows vertically.  If both "-o" and "-O"
are given, the last one encountered will be used to determine the split
orientation.  For example, this will open three windows, split horizontally: >
	vim -o file1 file2 file3

"-oN", where N is a decimal number, opens N windows split horizontally.  If
there are more file names than windows, only N windows are opened and some
files do not get a window.  If there are more windows than file names, the
last few windows will be editing empty buffers.  Similarly, "-ON" opens N
windows split vertically, with the same restrictions.

If there are many file names, the windows will become very small.  You might
want to set the 'winheight' and/or 'winwidth' options to create a workable
situation.

Buf/Win Enter/Leave |autocommand|s are not executed when opening the new
windows and reading the files, that's only done when they are really entered.

							*status-line*
A status line will be used to separate windows.  The 'laststatus' option tells
when the last window also has a status line:
	'laststatus' = 0	never a status line
	'laststatus' = 1	status line if there is more than one window
	'laststatus' = 2	always a status line

You can change the contents of the status line with the 'statusline' option.
This option can be local to the window, so that you can have a different
status line in each window.

Normally, inversion is used to display the status line.  This can be changed
with the 's' character in the 'highlight' option.  For example, "sb" sets it to
bold characters.  If no highlighting is used for the status line ("sn"), the
'^' character is used for the current window, and '=' for other windows.  If
the mouse is supported and enabled with the 'mouse' option, a status line can
be dragged to resize windows.

Note: If you expect your status line to be in reverse video and it isn't,
check if the 'highlight' option contains "si".  In version 3.0, this meant to
invert the status line.  Now it should be "sr", reverse the status line, as
"si" now stands for italic!  If italic is not available on your terminal, the
status line is inverted anyway; you will only see this problem on terminals
that have termcap codes for italics.

							*filler-lines*
The lines after the last buffer line in a window are called filler lines.
These lines start with a tilde (~) character. By default, these are
highlighted as NonText (|hl-NonText|). The EndOfBuffer highlight group
(|hl-EndOfBuffer|) can be used to change the highlighting of filler lines.

