4.9 Menus
=========

"Menus" contain pointers to subordinate nodes.  In online output, you
use menus to go to such nodes.  Menus have no effect in printed manuals
and do not appear in them.

* Menu:

* Writing a Menu::              What is a menu?
* Menu Example::                Two and three part menu entries.
* Menu Location::               Menus go at the ends of nodes.
* Menu Parts::                  A menu entry has three parts.
* Less Cluttered Menu Entry::   Two part menu entry.
* Other Info Files::            How to refer to a different Info file.

File: texinfo.info,  Node: Writing a Menu,  Next: Menu Example,  Up: Menus

4.9.1 Writing a Menu
--------------------

A menu consists of a '@menu' command on a line by itself, followed by
menu entry lines or menu comment lines, and then followed by an '@end
menu' command on a line by itself.

   A menu looks like this:

     @menu
     Larger Units of Text

     * Files::                       All about handling files.
     * Multiples: Buffers.           Multiple buffers; editing
                                      several files at once.
     @end menu

   In a menu, every line that begins with an '* ' is a "menu entry".
(Note the space after the asterisk.)

   A line that does not start with an '* ' may also appear in a menu.
Such a line is not a menu entry but rather a "menu comment" line that
appears in the Info file.  In the example above, the line 'Larger Units
of Text' is such a menu comment line; the two lines starting with '* '
are menu entries.

   Technically, menus can carry you to any node, regardless of the
structure of the document; even to nodes in a different Info file.
However, we do not recommend making use of this, because it is hard for
readers to follow.  Also, the 'makeinfo' implicit pointer creation
feature (*note makeinfo Pointer Creation::) and GNU Emacs Texinfo mode
updating commands work only to create menus of subordinate nodes in a
hierarchically structured document.  It is much better to use
cross-references to refer to arbitrary nodes.

   'makeinfo' can automatically generate menus in nodes for Info and
HTML output, based on the chapter structure of the document.  To specify
that you want it to do this, place the line '@validatemenus off' near
the beginning of the document.

   In Info, a user selects a node with the 'm' ('Info-menu') command.
The menu entry name is what the user types after the 'm' command.  In
the HTML output from 'makeinfo', the 'accesskey' attribute is used with
the values '1'...'9' for the first nine entries.  This allows people
using web browsers to follow the first menu entries using (typically)
'M-DIGIT', e.g., 'M-1' for the first entry.

File: texinfo.info,  Node: Menu Example,  Next: Menu Location,  Prev: Writing a Menu,  Up: Menus

4.9.2 A Menu Example
--------------------

A menu looks like this in Texinfo:

     @menu
     * menu entry name: Node name.   A short description.
     * Node name::                   This form is preferred.
     @end menu

This produces:

     * menu:

     * menu entry name: Node name.   A short description.
     * Node name::                   This form is preferred.

   Here is an example as you might see it in a Texinfo file:

     @menu
     Larger Units of Text

     * Files::                       All about handling files.
     * Multiples: Buffers.           Multiple buffers; editing
                                      several files at once.
     @end menu

This produces:

     * menu:
     Larger Units of Text

     * Files::                       All about handling files.
     * Multiples: Buffers.           Multiple buffers; editing
                                      several files at once.

   In this example, the menu has two entries.  'Files' is both a menu
entry name and the name of the node referred to by that name.
'Multiples' is the menu entry name; it refers to the node named
'Buffers'.  The line 'Larger Units of Text' is a comment; it appears in
the menu, but is not an entry.

   Since no file name is specified with either 'Files' or 'Buffers',
they must be the names of nodes in the same Info file (*note Referring
to Other Info Files: Other Info Files.).

File: texinfo.info,  Node: Menu Location,  Next: Menu Parts,  Prev: Menu Example,  Up: Menus

4.9.3 Menu Location
-------------------

There may be at most one menu in a node.  A menu is conventionally
located at the end of a node, without any regular text or additional
commands between the '@end menu' and the beginning of the next node.

   This convention is useful, since a reader who uses the menu could
easily miss any such text.  Also, any such post-menu text will be
considered part of the menu in Info output (which has no marker for the
end of a menu).  Thus, a line beginning with '* ' will likely be
incorrectly handled.

   It's usually best if a node with a menu does not contain much text.
If you find yourself with a lot of text before a menu, we generally
recommend moving all but a couple of paragraphs into a new subnode.
Otherwise, it is easy for readers to miss the menu.

File: texinfo.info,  Node: Menu Parts,  Next: Less Cluttered Menu Entry,  Prev: Menu Location,  Up: Menus

4.9.4 The Parts of a Menu
-------------------------

A menu entry has three parts, only the second of which is required:

  1. The menu entry name (optional).

  2. The name of the node (required).

  3. A description of the item (optional).

   The template for a generic menu entry looks like this (but see the
next section for one more possibility):

     * MENU-ENTRY-NAME: NODE-NAME.   DESCRIPTION

   Follow the menu entry name with a single colon, and follow the node
name with tab, comma, newline, or the two characters period and space
('. ').

   The third part of a menu entry is a descriptive phrase or sentence.
Menu entry names and node names are often short; the description
explains to the reader what the node is about.  A useful description
complements the node name rather than repeats it.  The description,
which is optional, can spread over multiple lines; if it does, some
authors prefer to indent the second line while others prefer to align it
with the first (and all others).  It's up to you.  An empty line, or the
next menu entry, ends a description.

   Space characters in a menu are preserved as-is in the Info output;
this allows you to format the menu as you wish.  Unfortunately you must
type node names without any extra spaces or some versions of some Info
readers will not find the node (*note Node Line Requirements::).

   'makeinfo' warns when the text of a menu item (and node names and
cross-references) contains a problematic construct that will interfere
with its parsing in Info.  If you don't want to see the warnings, you
can set the customization variable 'INFO_SPECIAL_CHARS_WARNING' to '0'
(*note Other Customization Variables::).

File: texinfo.info,  Node: Less Cluttered Menu Entry,  Next: Other Info Files,  Prev: Menu Parts,  Up: Menus

4.9.5 Less Cluttered Menu Entry
-------------------------------

When the menu entry name and node name are the same, you can write the
name immediately after the asterisk and space at the beginning of the
line and follow the name with two colons.

   For example, write

     * Name::                        DESCRIPTION

instead of

     * Name: Name.                   DESCRIPTION

   We recommend using the node name for the menu entry name whenever
possible, since it reduces visual clutter in the menu.

File: texinfo.info,  Node: Other Info Files,  Prev: Less Cluttered Menu Entry,  Up: Menus

4.9.6 Referring to Other Info Files
-----------------------------------

You can create a menu entry that enables a reader in Info to go to a
node in another Info file by writing the file name in parentheses just
before the node name.  Some examples:

     @menu
     * FIRST-ENTRY-NAME:(FILENAME)NODENAME.     DESCRIPTION
     * (FILENAME)SECOND-NODE::                  DESCRIPTION
     @end menu

   For example, to refer directly to the 'Outlining' and 'Rebinding'
nodes in the 'Emacs Manual', you could write a menu like this:

     @menu
     * Outlining: (emacs)Outline Mode. The major mode for
                                        editing outlines.
     * (emacs)Rebinding::              How to redefine the
                                        meaning of a key.
     @end menu

   If you do not list the node name, but only name the file, then Info
presumes that you are referring to the 'Top' node.  Examples:

     * Info: (info).         Documentation browsing system.
     * (emacs)::             The extensible, self-documenting
                              text editor.

   The GNU Emacs Texinfo mode menu updating commands only work with
nodes within the current buffer, so you cannot use them to create menus
that refer to other files.  You must write such menus by hand.

File: texinfo.info,  Node: Chapter Structuring,  Next: Cross References,  Prev: Nodes,  Up: Top

