10.3 Footnotes
==============

A "footnote" is for a reference that documents or elucidates the primary
text.(1)

   Footnotes are distracting; use them sparingly at most, and it is best
to avoid them completely.  Standard bibliographical references are
usually better placed in a bibliography at the end of a document instead
of in footnotes throughout.

* Menu:

* Footnote Commands::           How to write a footnote in Texinfo.
* Footnote Styles::             Controlling how footnotes appear in Info.

   ---------- Footnotes ----------

   (1) A footnote should complement or expand upon the primary text, but
a reader should not need to read a footnote to understand the primary
text.  For a thorough discussion of footnotes, see 'The Chicago Manual
of Style', which is published by the University of Chicago Press.

File: texinfo.info,  Node: Footnote Commands,  Next: Footnote Styles,  Up: Footnotes

10.3.1 Footnote Commands
------------------------

In Texinfo, footnotes are created with the '@footnote' command.  This
command is followed immediately by a left brace, then by the text of the
footnote, and then by a terminating right brace.  Footnotes may be of
any length (they will be broken across pages if necessary), but are
usually short.  The template is:

     ordinary text@footnote{TEXT OF FOOTNOTE}

   As shown here, the '@footnote' command should come right after the
text being footnoted, with no intervening space; otherwise, the footnote
marker might end up starting a line.

   For example, this clause is followed by a sample footnote(1); in the
Texinfo source, it looks like this:

     ...a sample footnote@footnote{Here is the sample
     footnote.}; in the Texinfo source...

   As you can see, this source includes two punctuation marks next to
each other; in this case, '.};' is the sequence.  This is normal (the
first ends the footnote and the second belongs to the sentence being
footnoted), so don't worry that it looks odd.  (Another style, perfectly
acceptable, is to put the footnote after punctuation belonging to the
sentence, as in ';@footnote{...'.)

   In a printed manual or book, the reference mark for a footnote is a
small, superscripted number; the text of the footnote appears at the
bottom of the page, below a horizontal line.

   In Info, the reference mark for a footnote is a pair of parentheses
with the footnote number between them, like this: '(1)'.  The reference
mark is followed by a cross-reference link to the footnote text if
footnotes are put in separate nodes (*note Footnote Styles::).

   In the HTML output, footnote references are generally marked with a
small, superscripted number which is rendered as a hypertext link to the
footnote text.

   Footnotes cannot be nested, and cannot appear in section headings of
any kind or other "unusual" places.

   A final tip: footnotes in the argument of an '@item' command for an
'@table' must be entirely on the same line as the '@item' (as usual).
*Note Two-column Tables::.

   ---------- Footnotes ----------

   (1) Here is the sample footnote.

File: texinfo.info,  Node: Footnote Styles,  Prev: Footnote Commands,  Up: Footnotes

10.3.2 Footnote Styles
----------------------

Info has two footnote styles, which determine where the text of the
footnote is located:

   * In the 'End' node style, all the footnotes for a single node are
     placed at the end of that node.  The footnotes are separated from
     the rest of the node by a line of dashes with the word 'Footnotes'
     within it.  Each footnote begins with an '(N)' reference mark.

     Here is an example of the Info output for a single footnote in the
     end-of-node style:

          --------- Footnotes ---------

          (1)  Here is a sample footnote.

   * In the 'Separate' node style, all the footnotes for a single node
     are placed in an automatically constructed node of their own.  In
     this style, a "footnote reference" follows each '(N)' reference
     mark in the body of the node.  The footnote reference is actually a
     cross-reference which you use to reach the footnote node.

     The name of the node with the footnotes is constructed by appending
     '-Footnotes' to the name of the node that contains the footnotes.
     (Consequently, the footnotes' node for the 'Footnotes' node is
     'Footnotes-Footnotes'!)  The footnotes' node has an 'Up' node
     pointer that leads back to its parent node.

     Here is how the first footnote in this manual looks after being
     formatted for Info in the separate node style:

          File: texinfo.info  Node: Overview-Footnotes, Up: Overview

          (1) The first syllable of "Texinfo" is pronounced like "speck", not
          "hex". ...

   Unless your document has long and important footnotes (as in, say,
Gibbon's 'Decline and Fall ...'), we recommend the 'end' style, as it is
simpler for readers to follow.

   Use the '@footnotestyle' command to specify an Info file's footnote
style.  Write this command at the beginning of a line followed by an
argument, either 'end' for the end node style or 'separate' for the
separate node style.

   For example,

     @footnotestyle end
or
     @footnotestyle separate

   Write a '@footnotestyle' command before or shortly after the
end-of-header line at the beginning of a Texinfo file.  (You should
include any '@footnotestyle' command between the start-of-header and
end-of-header lines, so the region formatting commands will format
footnotes as specified.)

   In HTML, when the footnote style is 'end', or if the output is not
split, footnotes are put at the end of the output.  If set to
'separate', and the output is split, they are placed in a separate file.

File: texinfo.info,  Node: Indices,  Next: Insertions,  Prev: Special Displays,  Up: Top

