21.1 Creating an Info File
==========================

'makeinfo' is a program that converts a Texinfo file into an Info file,
HTML file, or plain text.  'texinfo-format-region' and
'texinfo-format-buffer' are GNU Emacs functions that convert Texinfo to
Info.

   For information on installing the Info file in the Info system, *note
Installing an Info File::.

* Menu:

* makeinfo Advantages::         'makeinfo' provides better error checking.
* makeinfo in Emacs::           How to run 'makeinfo' from Emacs.
* texinfo-format commands::     Two Info formatting commands written
                                 in Emacs Lisp are an alternative
                                 to 'makeinfo'.
* Batch Formatting::            How to format for Info in Emacs batch mode.
* Tag and Split Files::         How tagged and split files help Info
                                 to run better.

File: texinfo.info,  Node: makeinfo Advantages,  Next: makeinfo in Emacs,  Up: Creating an Info File

21.1.1 'makeinfo' Advantages
----------------------------

The 'makeinfo' utility creates an Info file from a Texinfo source
providing better error messages than either of the Emacs formatting
commands.  We recommend it.  The 'makeinfo' program is independent of
Emacs.  You can run 'makeinfo' in any of three ways: from an operating
system shell, from a shell inside Emacs, or by typing the 'C-c C-m C-r'
or the 'C-c C-m C-b' command in Texinfo mode in Emacs.

   The 'texinfo-format-region' and the 'texinfo-format-buffer' commands
may be useful if you cannot run 'makeinfo'.

File: texinfo.info,  Node: makeinfo in Emacs,  Next: texinfo-format commands,  Prev: makeinfo Advantages,  Up: Creating an Info File

21.1.2 Running 'makeinfo' Within Emacs
--------------------------------------

You can run 'makeinfo' in GNU Emacs Texinfo mode by using either the
'makeinfo-region' or the 'makeinfo-buffer' commands.  In Texinfo mode,
the commands are bound to 'C-c C-m C-r' and 'C-c C-m C-b' by default.

'C-c C-m C-r'
'M-x makeinfo-region'
     Format the current region for Info.

'C-c C-m C-b'
'M-x makeinfo-buffer'
     Format the current buffer for Info.

   When you invoke 'makeinfo-region' the output goes to a temporary
buffer.  When you invoke 'makeinfo-buffer' output goes to the file set
with '@setfilename' (*note @setfilename::).

   The Emacs 'makeinfo-region' and 'makeinfo-buffer' commands run the
'makeinfo' program in a temporary shell buffer.  If 'makeinfo' finds any
errors, Emacs displays the error messages in the temporary buffer.

   You can parse the error messages by typing 'C-x `' ('next-error').
This causes Emacs to go to and position the cursor on the line in the
Texinfo source that 'makeinfo' thinks caused the error.  *Note Running
'make' or Compilers Generally: (emacs)Compilation, for more information
about using the 'next-error' command.

   In addition, you can kill the shell in which the 'makeinfo' command
is running or make the shell buffer display its most recent output.

'C-c C-m C-k'
'M-x makeinfo-kill-job'
     Kill the current running 'makeinfo' job (from 'makeinfo-region' or
     'makeinfo-buffer').

'C-c C-m C-l'
'M-x makeinfo-recenter-output-buffer'
     Redisplay the 'makeinfo' shell buffer to display its most recent
     output.

(Note that the parallel commands for killing and recentering a TeX job
are 'C-c C-t C-k' and 'C-c C-t C-l'.  *Note Texinfo Mode Printing::.)

   You can specify options for 'makeinfo' by setting the
'makeinfo-options' variable with either the 'M-x customize' or the 'M-x
set-variable' command, or by setting the variable in your '.emacs'
initialization file.

   For example, you could write the following in your '.emacs' file:

     (setq makeinfo-options
          "--paragraph-indent=0 --no-split
           --fill-column=70 --verbose")

For more information, see
*note Easy Customization Interface: (emacs)Easy Customization,
*note Examining and Setting Variables: (emacs)Examining,
*note (emacs)Init File::, and
*note makeinfo Options::.

File: texinfo.info,  Node: texinfo-format commands,  Next: Batch Formatting,  Prev: makeinfo in Emacs,  Up: Creating an Info File

21.1.3 The 'texinfo-format...' Commands
---------------------------------------

In GNU Emacs in Texinfo mode, you can format part or all of a Texinfo
file with the 'texinfo-format-region' command.  This formats the current
region and displays the formatted text in a temporary buffer called
'*Info Region*'.

   Similarly, you can format a buffer with the 'texinfo-format-buffer'
command.  This command creates a new buffer and generates the Info file
in it.  Typing 'C-x C-s' will save the Info file under the name
specified by the '@setfilename' line which must be near the beginning of
the Texinfo file.

'C-c C-e C-r'
'texinfo-format-region'
     Format the current region for Info.

'C-c C-e C-b'
'texinfo-format-buffer'
     Format the current buffer for Info.

   The 'texinfo-format-region' and 'texinfo-format-buffer' commands
provide you with some error checking, and other functions can provide
you with further help in finding formatting errors.  These procedures
are described in an appendix; see *note Catching Mistakes::.  However,
the 'makeinfo' program provides better error checking (*note makeinfo in
Emacs::).

   A peculiarity of the 'texinfo-format-buffer' and
'texinfo-format-region' commands is that they do not indent (nor fill)
paragraphs that contain '@w' or '@*' commands.

File: texinfo.info,  Node: Batch Formatting,  Next: Tag and Split Files,  Prev: texinfo-format commands,  Up: Creating an Info File

21.1.4 Batch Formatting
-----------------------

You can format Texinfo files for Info using 'batch-texinfo-format' and
Emacs batch mode.  You can run Emacs in batch mode from any shell,
including a shell inside of Emacs.  (*Note (emacs)Initial Options::.)

   Here is a shell command to format all the files that end in
'.texinfo' in the current directory:

     emacs -batch -funcall batch-texinfo-format *.texinfo

Emacs processes all the files listed on the command line, even if an
error occurs while attempting to format some of them.

   Run 'batch-texinfo-format' only with Emacs in batch mode as shown; it
is not interactive.  It kills the batch mode Emacs on completion.

   'batch-texinfo-format' is convenient if you lack 'makeinfo' and want
to format several Texinfo files at once.  When you use Batch mode, you
create a new Emacs process.  This frees your current Emacs, so you can
continue working in it.  (When you run 'texinfo-format-region' or
'texinfo-format-buffer', you cannot use that Emacs for anything else
until the command finishes.)

File: texinfo.info,  Node: Tag and Split Files,  Prev: Batch Formatting,  Up: Creating an Info File

21.1.5 Tag Files and Split Files
--------------------------------

If a Texinfo file has more than 30,000 bytes, 'texinfo-format-buffer'
automatically creates a tag table for its Info file; 'makeinfo' always
creates a tag table.  With a "tag table", Info can jump to new nodes
more quickly than it can otherwise.

   In addition, if the Texinfo file contains more than about 300,000
bytes, 'texinfo-format-buffer' and 'makeinfo' split the large Info file
into shorter "indirect" subfiles of about 300,000 bytes each.  Big files
are split into smaller files so that Emacs does not need to make a large
buffer to hold the whole of a large Info file; instead, Emacs allocates
just enough memory for the small, split-off file that is needed at the
time.  This way, Emacs avoids wasting memory when you run Info.  (Before
splitting was implemented, Info files were always kept short and
"include files" were designed as a way to create a single, large printed
manual out of the smaller Info files.  *Note Include Files::, for more
information.  Include files are still used for very large documents,
such as 'The Emacs Lisp Reference Manual', in which each chapter is a
separate file.)

   When a file is split, Info itself makes use of a shortened version of
the original file that contains just the tag table and references to the
files that were split off.  The split-off files are called "indirect"
files.

   The split-off files have names that are created by appending '-1',
'-2', '-3' and so on to the file name specified by the '@setfilename'
command.  The shortened version of the original file continues to have
the name specified by '@setfilename'.

   At one stage in writing this document, for example, the Info file was
saved as the file 'test-texinfo' and that file looked like this:

     Info file: test-texinfo,    -*-Text-*-
     produced by texinfo-format-buffer
     from file: new-texinfo-manual.texinfo

     ^_
     Indirect:
     test-texinfo-1: 102
     test-texinfo-2: 50422
     test-texinfo-3: 101300
     ^_^L
     Tag table:
     (Indirect)
     Node: overview^?104
     Node: info file^?1271
     Node: printed manual^?4853
     Node: conventions^?6855
     ...

(But 'test-texinfo' had far more nodes than are shown here.)  Each of
the split-off, indirect files, 'test-texinfo-1', 'test-texinfo-2', and
'test-texinfo-3', is listed in this file after the line that says
'Indirect:'.  The tag table is listed after the line that says 'Tag
table:'.

   In the list of indirect files, the number following the file name
records the cumulative number of bytes in the preceding indirect files,
not counting the file list itself, the tag table, or any permissions
text in the first file.  In the tag table, the number following the node
name records the location of the beginning of the node, in bytes from
the beginning of the (unsplit) output.

   If you are using 'texinfo-format-buffer' to create Info files, you
may want to run the 'Info-validate' command.  (The 'makeinfo' command
does such a good job on its own, you do not need 'Info-validate'.)
However, you cannot run the 'M-x Info-validate' node-checking command on
indirect files.  For information on how to prevent files from being
split and how to validate the structure of the nodes, see *note Using
Info-validate::.

File: texinfo.info,  Node: Installing an Info File,  Prev: Creating an Info File,  Up: Creating and Installing Info Files

