21.2 Installing an Info File
============================

Info files are usually kept in the 'info' directory.  You can read Info
files using the standalone Info program or the Info reader built into
Emacs.  (*Note (info)Top::, for an introduction to Info.)

* Menu:

* Directory File::              The top level menu for all Info files.
* New Info File::               Listing a new Info file.
* Other Info Directories::      How to specify Info files that are
                                 located in other directories.
* Installing Dir Entries::      How to specify what menu entry to add
                                 to the Info directory.
* Invoking install-info::       'install-info' options.

File: texinfo.info,  Node: Directory File,  Next: New Info File,  Up: Installing an Info File

21.2.1 The Directory File 'dir'
-------------------------------

For Info to work, the 'info' directory must contain a file that serves
as a top level directory for the Info system.  By convention, this file
is called 'dir'.  (You can find the location of this file within Emacs
by typing 'C-h i' to enter Info and then typing 'C-x C-f' to see the
pathname to the 'info' directory.)

   The 'dir' file is itself an Info file.  It contains the top level
menu for all the Info files in the system.  The menu looks like this:

     * Menu:
     * Info:    (info).     Documentation browsing system.
     * Emacs:   (emacs).    The extensible, self-documenting
                           text editor.
     * Texinfo: (texinfo).  With one source file, make
                           either a printed manual using
                           @TeX{} or an Info file.
     ...

   Each of these menu entries points to the 'Top' node of the Info file
that is named in parentheses.  (The menu entry does not need to specify
the 'Top' node, since Info goes to the 'Top' node if no node name is
mentioned.  *Note Nodes in Other Info Files: Other Info Files.)

   Thus, the 'Info' entry points to the 'Top' node of the 'info' file
and the 'Emacs' entry points to the 'Top' node of the 'emacs' file.

   In each of the Info files, the 'Up' pointer of the 'Top' node refers
back to the 'dir' file.  For example, the line for the 'Top' node of the
Emacs manual looks like this in Info:

     File: emacs  Node: Top, Up: (DIR), Next: Distrib

In this case, the 'dir' file name is written in uppercase letters--it
can be written in either upper- or lowercase.  This is not true in
general, it is a special case for 'dir'.

File: texinfo.info,  Node: New Info File,  Next: Other Info Directories,  Prev: Directory File,  Up: Installing an Info File

21.2.2 Listing a New Info File
------------------------------

To add a new Info file to your system, you must write a menu entry to
add to the menu in the 'dir' file in the 'info' directory.  For example,
if you were adding documentation for GDB, you would write the following
new entry:

     * GDB: (gdb).           The source-level C debugger.

The first part of the menu entry is the menu entry name, followed by a
colon.  The second part is the name of the Info file, in parentheses,
followed by a period.  The third part is the description.

   The name of an Info file often has a '.info' extension.  Thus, the
Info file for GDB might be called either 'gdb' or 'gdb.info'.  The Info
reader programs automatically try the file name both with and without
'.info'(1); so it is better to avoid clutter and not to write '.info'
explicitly in the menu entry.  For example, the GDB menu entry should
use just 'gdb' for the file name, not 'gdb.info'.

   ---------- Footnotes ----------

   (1) On MS-DOS/MS-Windows systems, Info will try the '.inf' extension
as well.

File: texinfo.info,  Node: Other Info Directories,  Next: Installing Dir Entries,  Prev: New Info File,  Up: Installing an Info File

21.2.3 Info Files in Other Directories
--------------------------------------

If an Info file is not in the 'info' directory, there are three ways to
specify its location:

  1. Write the pathname in the 'dir' file as the second part of the
     menu.

  2. Specify the Info directory name in the 'INFOPATH' environment
     variable in your '.profile' or '.cshrc' initialization file.  (Only
     you and others who set this environment variable will be able to
     find Info files whose location is specified this way.)

  3. If you are using Emacs, list the name of the file in a second 'dir'
     file, in its directory; and then add the name of that directory to
     the 'Info-directory-list' variable in your personal or site
     initialization file.

     This variable tells Emacs where to look for 'dir' files (the files
     must be named 'dir').  Emacs merges the files named 'dir' from each
     of the listed directories.  (In Emacs version 18, you can set the
     'Info-directory' variable to the name of only one directory.)

   For example, to reach a test file in the '/home/bob/info' directory,
you could add an entry like this to the menu in the standard 'dir' file:

     * Test: (/home/bob/info/info-test).  Bob's own test file.

In this case, the absolute file name of the 'info-test' file is written
as the second part of the menu entry.

   If you don't want to edit the system 'dir' file, you can tell Info
where to look by setting the 'INFOPATH' environment variable in your
shell startup file.  This works with both the Emacs and standalone Info
readers.

   Specifically, if you use a Bourne-compatible shell such as 'sh' or
'bash' for your shell command interpreter, you set the 'INFOPATH'
environment variable in the '.profile' initialization file; but if you
use 'csh' or 'tcsh', you set the variable in the '.cshrc' initialization
file.  On MS-DOS/MS-Windows systems, you must set 'INFOPATH' in your
'autoexec.bat' file or in the registry.  Each type of shell uses a
different syntax.

   * In a '.cshrc' file, you could set the 'INFOPATH' variable as
     follows:

          setenv INFOPATH .:~/info:/usr/local/emacs/info

   * In a '.profile' file, you would achieve the same effect by writing:

          INFOPATH=.:$HOME/info:/usr/local/emacs/info
          export INFOPATH

   * In a 'autoexec.bat' file, you write this command (note the use of
     ';' as the directory separator, and a different syntax for using
     values of other environment variables):

          set INFOPATH=.;%HOME%/info;c:/usr/local/emacs/info

The '.' indicates the current directory as usual.  Emacs uses the
'INFOPATH' environment variable to initialize the value of Emacs's own
'Info-directory-list' variable.  The standalone Info reader merges any
files named 'dir' in any directory listed in the 'INFOPATH' variable
into a single menu presented to you in the node called '(dir)Top'.

   However you set 'INFOPATH', if its last character is a colon (on
MS-DOS/MS-Windows systems, use a semicolon instead), this is replaced by
the default (compiled-in) path.  This gives you a way to augment the
default path with new directories without having to list all the
standard places.  For example (using 'sh' syntax):

     INFOPATH=/home/bob/info:
     export INFOPATH

will search '/home/bob/info' first, then the standard directories.
Leading or doubled colons are not treated specially.

   When you create your own 'dir' file for use with
'Info-directory-list' or 'INFOPATH', it's easiest to start by copying an
existing 'dir' file and replace all the text after the '* Menu:' with
your desired entries.  That way, the punctuation and special 'CTRL-_'
characters that Info needs will be present.

   As one final alternative, which works only with Emacs Info, you can
change the 'Info-directory-list' variable.  For example:

     (add-hook 'Info-mode-hook '(lambda ()
     	     (add-to-list 'Info-directory-list
     			  (expand-file-name "~/info"))))

File: texinfo.info,  Node: Installing Dir Entries,  Next: Invoking install-info,  Prev: Other Info Directories,  Up: Installing an Info File

21.2.4 Installing Info Directory Files
--------------------------------------

When you install an Info file onto your system, you can use the program
'install-info' to update the Info directory file 'dir'.  Normally the
makefile for the package runs 'install-info', just after copying the
Info file into its proper installed location.

   In order for the Info file to work with 'install-info', you include
the commands '@dircategory' and '@direntry'...'@end direntry' in the
Texinfo source file.  Use '@direntry' to specify the menu entries to add
to the Info directory file, and use '@dircategory' to specify which part
of the Info directory to put it in.  Here is how these commands are used
in this manual:

     @dircategory Texinfo documentation system
     @direntry
     * Texinfo: (texinfo).           The GNU documentation format.
     * install-info: (texinfo)Invoking install-info. ...
     ...
     @end direntry

   Here's what this produces in the Info file:

     INFO-DIR-SECTION Texinfo documentation system
     START-INFO-DIR-ENTRY
     * Texinfo: (texinfo).           The GNU documentation format.
     * install-info: (texinfo)Invoking install-info. ...
     ...
     END-INFO-DIR-ENTRY

The 'install-info' program sees these lines in the Info file, and that
is how it knows what to do.

   Always use the '@direntry' and '@dircategory' commands near the
beginning of the Texinfo input, before the first '@node' command.  If
you use them later on in the input, 'install-info' will not notice them.

   'install-info' will automatically reformat the description of the
menu entries it is adding.  As a matter of convention, the description
of the main entry (above, 'The GNU documentation format') should start
at column 32, starting at zero (as in 'what-cursor-position' in Emacs).
This will make it align with most others.  Description for individual
utilities best start in column 48, where possible.  For more information
about formatting see the '--calign', '--align', and '--max-width'
options in *note Invoking install-info::.

   If you use '@dircategory' more than once in the Texinfo source, each
usage specifies the 'current' category; any subsequent '@direntry'
commands will add to that category.

   When choosing a category name for the '@dircategory' command, we
recommend consulting the Free Software Directory
(http://www.gnu.org/directory).  If your program is not listed there, or
listed incorrectly or incompletely, please report the situation to the
directory maintainers (<http://directory.fsf.org>) so that the category
names can be kept in sync.

   Here are a few examples (see the 'util/dir-example' file in the
Texinfo distribution for large sample 'dir' file):

     Emacs
     Localization
     Printing
     Software development
     Software libraries
     Text creation and manipulation

   Each 'Invoking' node for every program installed should have a
corresponding '@direntry'.  This lets users easily find the
documentation for the different programs they can run, as with the
traditional 'man' system.

File: texinfo.info,  Node: Invoking install-info,  Prev: Installing Dir Entries,  Up: Installing an Info File

21.2.5 Invoking 'install-info'
------------------------------

'install-info' inserts menu entries from an Info file into the top-level
'dir' file in the Info system (see the previous sections for an
explanation of how the 'dir' file works).  'install-info' also removes
menu entries from the 'dir' file.  It's most often run as part of
software installation, or when constructing a 'dir' file for all manuals
on a system.  Synopsis:

     install-info [OPTION...] [INFO-FILE [DIR-FILE]]

   If INFO-FILE or DIR-FILE are not specified, the options (described
below) that define them must be.  There are no compile-time defaults,
and standard input is never used.  'install-info' can read only one Info
file and write only one 'dir' file per invocation.

   If DIR-FILE (however specified) does not exist, 'install-info'
creates it if possible (with no entries).

   If any input file is compressed with 'gzip' (*note (gzip)Top::),
'install-info' automatically uncompresses it for reading.  And if
DIR-FILE is compressed, 'install-info' also automatically leaves it
compressed after writing any changes.  If DIR-FILE itself does not
exist, 'install-info' tries to open 'DIR-FILE.gz', 'DIR-FILE.xz',
'DIR-FILE.bz2', 'DIR-FILE.lz', and 'DIR-FILE.lzma', in that order.

   Options:

'--add-once'
     Specifies that the entry or entries will only be put into a single
     section.

'--align=COLUMN'
     Specifies the column that the second and subsequent lines of menu
     entry's description will be formatted to begin at.  The default for
     this option is '35'.  It is used in conjunction with the
     '--max-width' option.  COLUMN starts counting at 1.

'--append-new-sections'
     Instead of alphabetizing new sections, place them at the end of the
     DIR file.

'--calign=COLUMN'
     Specifies the column that the first line of menu entry's
     description will be formatted to begin at.  The default for this
     option is '33'.  It is used in conjunction with the '--max-width'
     option.  When the name of the menu entry exceeds this column,
     entry's description will start on the following line.  COLUMN
     starts counting at 1.

'--debug'
     Report what is being done.

'--delete'
     Delete the entries in INFO-FILE from DIR-FILE.  The file name in
     the entry in DIR-FILE must be INFO-FILE (except for an optional
     '.info' in either one).  Don't insert any new entries.  Any empty
     sections that result from the removal are also removed.

'--description=TEXT'
     Specify the explanatory portion of the menu entry.  If you don't
     specify a description (either via '--entry', '--item' or this
     option), the description is taken from the Info file itself.

'--dir-file=NAME'
     Specify file name of the Info directory file.  This is equivalent
     to using the DIR-FILE argument.

'--dry-run'
     Same as '--test'.

'--entry=TEXT'
     Insert TEXT as an Info directory entry; TEXT should have the form
     of an Info menu item line plus zero or more extra lines starting
     with whitespace.  If you specify more than one entry, they are all
     added.  If you don't specify any entries, they are determined from
     information in the Info file itself.

'--help'
     Display a usage message with basic usage and all available options,
     then exit successfully.

'--info-file=FILE'
     Specify Info file to install in the directory.  This is equivalent
     to using the INFO-FILE argument.

'--info-dir=DIR'
     Specify the directory where the directory file 'dir' resides.
     Equivalent to '--dir-file=DIR/dir'.

'--infodir=DIR'
     Same as '--info-dir'.

'--item=TEXT'
     Same as '--entry=TEXT'.  An Info directory entry is actually a menu
     item.

'--keep-old'
     Do not replace pre-existing menu entries.  When '--remove' is
     specified, this option means that empty sections are not removed.

'--max-width=COLUMN'
     Specifies the column that the menu entry's description will be
     word-wrapped at.  COLUMN starts counting at 1.

'--maxwidth=COLUMN'
     Same as '--max-width'.

'--menuentry=TEXT'
     Same as '--name'.

'--name=TEXT'
     Specify the name portion of the menu entry.  If the TEXT does not
     start with an asterisk '*', it is presumed to be the text after the
     '*' and before the parentheses that specify the Info file.
     Otherwise TEXT is taken verbatim, and is taken as defining the text
     up to and including the first period (a space is appended if
     necessary).  If you don't specify the name (either via '--entry',
     '--item' or this option), it is taken from the Info file itself.
     If the Info does not contain the name, the basename of the Info
     file is used.

'--no-indent'
     Suppress formatting of new entries into the 'dir' file.

'--quiet'
'--silent'
     Suppress warnings, etc., for silent operation.

'--remove'
     Same as '--delete'.

'--remove-exactly'
     Also like '--delete', but only entries if the Info file name
     matches exactly; '.info' and/or '.gz' suffixes are _not_ ignored.

'--section=SEC'
     Put this file's entries in section SEC of the directory.  If you
     specify more than one section, all the entries are added in each of
     the sections.  If you don't specify any sections, they are
     determined from information in the Info file itself.  If the Info
     file doesn't specify a section, the menu entries are put into the
     Miscellaneous section.

'--section REGEX SEC'
     Same as '--regex=REGEX --section=SEC --add-once'.

     'install-info' tries to detect when this alternate syntax is used,
     but does not always guess correctly.  Here is the heuristic that
     'install-info' uses:
       1. If the second argument to '--section' starts with a hyphen,
          the original syntax is presumed.

       2. If the second argument to '--section' is a file that can be
          opened, the original syntax is presumed.

       3. Otherwise the alternate syntax is used.

     When the heuristic fails because your section title starts with a
     hyphen, or it happens to be a filename that can be opened, the
     syntax should be changed to '--regex=REGEX --section=SEC
     --add-once'.

'--regex=REGEX'
     Put this file's entries into any section that matches REGEX.  If
     more than one section matches, all of the entries are added in each
     of the sections.  Specify REGEX using basic regular expression
     syntax, more or less as used with 'grep', for example.

'--test'
     Suppress updating of the directory file.

'--version'
     Display version information and exit successfully.

File: texinfo.info,  Node: Generating HTML,  Next: @-Command Details,  Prev: Creating and Installing Info Files,  Up: Top

