D.5 Updating Nodes and Menus
============================

Texinfo mode provides commands for automatically creating or updating
menus and node pointers.  The commands are called "update" commands
because their most frequent use is for updating a Texinfo file after you
have worked on it; but you can use them to insert the 'Next',
'Previous', and 'Up' pointers into an '@node' line that has none and to
create menus in a file that has none.

   If you do not use any updating commands, you need to write menus by
hand, which is a tedious task.

* Menu:

* Updating Commands::           Five major updating commands.
* Updating Requirements::       How to structure a Texinfo file for
                                  using the updating command.
* Other Updating Commands::     How to indent descriptions, insert
                                  missing nodes lines, and update
                                  nodes in sequence.

File: texinfo.info,  Node: Updating Commands,  Next: Updating Requirements,  Up: Updating Nodes and Menus

D.5.1 The Updating Commands
---------------------------

You can use the updating commands to:

   * insert or update the 'Next', 'Previous', and 'Up' pointers of a
     node,

   * insert or update the menu for a section, and

   * create a master menu for a Texinfo source file.

   You can also use the commands to update all the nodes and menus in a
region or in a whole Texinfo file.

   The updating commands work only with conventional Texinfo files,
which are structured hierarchically like books.  In such files, a
structuring command line must follow closely after each '@node' line,
except for the 'Top' '@node' line.  (A "structuring command line" is a
line beginning with '@chapter', '@section', or other similar command.)

   You can write the structuring command line on the line that follows
immediately after an '@node' line or else on the line that follows after
a single '@comment' line or a single '@ifinfo' line.  You cannot
interpose more than one line between the '@node' line and the
structuring command line; and you may interpose only a '@comment' line
or an '@ifinfo' line.

   Commands which work on a whole buffer require that the 'Top' node be
followed by a node with a '@chapter' or equivalent-level command.  The
menu updating commands will not create a main or master menu for a
Texinfo file that has only '@chapter'-level nodes!  The menu updating
commands only create menus _within_ nodes for lower level nodes.  To
create a menu of chapters, you must provide a 'Top' node.

   The menu updating commands remove menu entries that refer to other
Info files since they do not refer to nodes within the current buffer.
This is a deficiency.  Rather than use menu entries, you can use cross
references to refer to other Info files.  None of the updating commands
affect cross-references.

   Texinfo mode has five updating commands that are used most often: two
are for updating the node pointers or menu of a single node (or a
region); two are for updating every node pointer and menu in a file; and
one, the 'texinfo-master-menu' command, is for creating a master menu
for a complete file, and optionally, for updating every node and menu in
the whole Texinfo file.

   The 'texinfo-master-menu' command is the primary command:

'C-c C-u m'
'M-x texinfo-master-menu'
     Create or update a master menu that includes all the other menus
     (incorporating the descriptions from pre-existing menus, if any).

     With an argument (prefix argument, 'C-u,' if interactive), first
     create or update all the nodes and all the regular menus in the
     buffer before constructing the master menu.  (*Note The Top Node
     and Master Menu: The Top Node, for more about a master menu.)

     For 'texinfo-master-menu' to work, the Texinfo file must have a
     'Top' node and at least one subsequent node.

     After extensively editing a Texinfo file, you can type the
     following:

          C-u M-x texinfo-master-menu
     or
          C-u C-c C-u m

     This updates all the nodes and menus completely and all at once.

   The other major updating commands do smaller jobs and are designed
for the person who updates nodes and menus as he or she writes a Texinfo
file.

   The commands are:

'C-c C-u C-n'
'M-x texinfo-update-node'
     Insert the 'Next', 'Previous', and 'Up' pointers for the node that
     point is within (i.e., for the '@node' line preceding point).  If
     the '@node' line has pre-existing 'Next', 'Previous', or 'Up'
     pointers in it, the old pointers are removed and new ones inserted.
     With an argument (prefix argument, 'C-u', if interactive), this
     command updates all '@node' lines in the region (which is the text
     between point and mark).

'C-c C-u C-m'
'M-x texinfo-make-menu'
     Create or update the menu in the node that point is within.  With
     an argument ('C-u' as prefix argument, if interactive), the command
     makes or updates menus for the nodes which are either within or a
     part of the region.

     Whenever 'texinfo-make-menu' updates an existing menu, the
     descriptions from that menu are incorporated into the new menu.
     This is done by copying descriptions from the existing menu to the
     entries in the new menu that have the same node names.  If the node
     names are different, the descriptions are not copied to the new
     menu.

'C-c C-u C-e'
'M-x texinfo-every-node-update'
     Insert or update the 'Next', 'Previous', and 'Up' pointers for
     every node in the buffer.

'C-c C-u C-a'
'M-x texinfo-all-menus-update'
     Create or update all the menus in the buffer.  With an argument
     ('C-u' as prefix argument, if interactive), first insert or update
     all the node pointers before working on the menus.

     If a master menu exists, the 'texinfo-all-menus-update' command
     updates it; but the command does not create a new master menu if
     none already exists.  (Use the 'texinfo-master-menu' command for
     that.)

     When working on a document that does not merit a master menu, you
     can type the following:

          C-u C-c C-u C-a
     or
          C-u M-x texinfo-all-menus-update

     This updates all the nodes and menus.

   The 'texinfo-column-for-description' variable specifies the column to
which menu descriptions are indented.  By default, the value is 32
although it can be useful to reduce it to as low as 24.  You can set the
variable via customization (*note (emacs)Customization::) or with the
'M-x set-variable' command (*note Examining and Setting Variables:
(emacs)Examining.).

   Also, the 'texinfo-indent-menu-description' command may be used to
indent existing menu descriptions to a specified column.  Finally, if
you wish, you can use the 'texinfo-insert-node-lines' command to insert
missing '@node' lines into a file.  (*Note Other Updating Commands::,
for more information.)

File: texinfo.info,  Node: Updating Requirements,  Next: Other Updating Commands,  Prev: Updating Commands,  Up: Updating Nodes and Menus

D.5.2 Updating Requirements
---------------------------

To use the updating commands, you must organize the Texinfo file
hierarchically with chapters, sections, subsections, and the like.  When
you construct the hierarchy of the manual, do not 'jump down' more than
one level at a time: you can follow the 'Top' node with a chapter, but
not with a section; you can follow a chapter with a section, but not
with a subsection.  However, you may 'jump up' any number of levels at
one time--for example, from a subsection to a chapter.

   Each '@node' line, with the exception of the line for the 'Top' node,
must be followed by a line with a structuring command such as
'@chapter', '@section', or '@unnumberedsubsec'.

   Each '@node' line/structuring-command line combination must look
either like this:

     @node     Comments,  Minimum, Conventions, Overview
     @comment  node-name, next,    previous,    up
     @section Comments

   or like this (without the '@comment' line):

     @node Comments, Minimum, Conventions, Overview
     @section Comments

   or like this (without the explicit node pointers):

     @node Comments
     @section Comments

In this example, 'Comments' is the name of both the node and the
section.  The next node is called 'Minimum' and the previous node is
called 'Conventions'.  The 'Comments' section is within the 'Overview'
node, which is specified by the 'Up' pointer.  (Instead of an '@comment'
line, you may also write an '@ifinfo' line.)

   If a file has a 'Top' node, it must be called 'top' or 'Top' and be
the first node in the file.

   The menu updating commands create a menu of sections within a
chapter, a menu of subsections within a section, and so on.  This means
that you must have a 'Top' node if you want a menu of chapters.

   Incidentally, the 'makeinfo' command will create an Info file for a
hierarchically organized Texinfo file that lacks 'Next', 'Previous' and
'Up' pointers.  Thus, if you can be sure that your Texinfo file will be
formatted with 'makeinfo', you have no need for the update node
commands.  (*Note Creating an Info File::, for more information about
'makeinfo'.)

File: texinfo.info,  Node: Other Updating Commands,  Prev: Updating Requirements,  Up: Updating Nodes and Menus

D.5.3 Other Updating Commands
-----------------------------

In addition to the five major updating commands, Texinfo mode possesses
several less frequently used updating commands:

'M-x texinfo-insert-node-lines'
     Insert '@node' lines before the '@chapter', '@section', and other
     sectioning commands wherever they are missing throughout a region
     in a Texinfo file.

     With an argument ('C-u' as prefix argument, if interactive), the
     command 'texinfo-insert-node-lines' not only inserts '@node' lines
     but also inserts the chapter or section titles as the names of the
     corresponding nodes.  In addition, it inserts the titles as node
     names in pre-existing '@node' lines that lack names.  Since node
     names should be more concise than section or chapter titles, you
     must manually edit node names so inserted.

     For example, the following marks a whole buffer as a region and
     inserts '@node' lines and titles throughout:

          C-x h C-u M-x texinfo-insert-node-lines

     This command inserts titles as node names in '@node' lines; the
     'texinfo-start-menu-description' command (*note Inserting
     Frequently Used Commands: Inserting.) inserts titles as
     descriptions in menu entries, a different action.  However, in both
     cases, you need to edit the inserted text.

'M-x texinfo-multiple-files-update'
     Update nodes and menus in a document built from several separate
     files.  With 'C-u' as a prefix argument, create and insert a master
     menu in the outer file.  With a numeric prefix argument, such as
     'C-u 2', first update all the menus and all the 'Next', 'Previous',
     and 'Up' pointers of all the included files before creating and
     inserting a master menu in the outer file.  The
     'texinfo-multiple-files-update' command is described in the
     appendix on '@include' files.  *Note
     texinfo-multiple-files-update::.

'M-x texinfo-indent-menu-description'
     Indent every description in the menu following point to the
     specified column.  You can use this command to give yourself more
     space for descriptions.  With an argument ('C-u' as prefix
     argument, if interactive), the 'texinfo-indent-menu-description'
     command indents every description in every menu in the region.
     However, this command does not indent the second and subsequent
     lines of a multi-line description.

'M-x texinfo-sequential-node-update'
     Insert the names of the nodes immediately following and preceding
     the current node as the 'Next' or 'Previous' pointers regardless of
     those nodes' hierarchical level.  This means that the 'Next' node
     of a subsection may well be the next chapter.  Sequentially ordered
     nodes are useful for novels and other documents that you read
     through sequentially.  (However, in Info, the 'g *' command lets
     you look through the file sequentially, so sequentially ordered
     nodes are not strictly necessary.)  With an argument (prefix
     argument, if interactive), the 'texinfo-sequential-node-update'
     command sequentially updates all the nodes in the region.

File: texinfo.info,  Node: Info Formatting,  Next: Printing,  Prev: Updating Nodes and Menus,  Up: Texinfo Mode

