F.6 Finding Badly Referenced Nodes
==================================

You can use the 'Info-validate' command to check whether any of the
'Next', 'Previous', 'Up' or other node pointers fail to point to a node.
This command checks that every node pointer points to an existing node.
The 'Info-validate' command works only on Info files, not on Texinfo
files.

   The 'makeinfo' program validates pointers automatically, so you do
not need to use the 'Info-validate' command if you are using 'makeinfo'.
You only may need to use 'Info-validate' if you are unable to run
'makeinfo' and instead must create an Info file using
'texinfo-format-region' or 'texinfo-format-buffer', or if you write an
Info file from scratch.

* Menu:

* Using Info-validate::         How to run 'Info-validate'.
* Unsplit::                     How to create an unsplit file.
* Tagifying::                   How to tagify a file.
* Splitting::                   How to split a file manually.

File: texinfo.info,  Node: Using Info-validate,  Next: Unsplit,  Up: Running Info-validate

F.6.1 Using 'Info-validate'
---------------------------

To use 'Info-validate', visit the Info file you wish to check and type:

     M-x Info-validate

Note that the 'Info-validate' command requires an uppercase 'I'.  You
may also need to create a tag table before running 'Info-validate'.
*Note Tagifying::.

   If your file is valid, you will receive a message that says "File
appears valid".  However, if you have a pointer that does not point to a
node, error messages will be displayed in a buffer called '*problems in
info file*'.

   For example, 'Info-validate' was run on a test file that contained
only the first node of this manual.  One of the messages said:

     In node "Overview", invalid Next: Texinfo Mode

This meant that the node called 'Overview' had a 'Next' pointer that did
not point to anything (which was true in this case, since the test file
had only one node in it).

   Now suppose we add a node named 'Texinfo Mode' to our test case but
we do not specify a 'Previous' for this node.  Then we will get the
following error message:

     In node "Texinfo Mode", should have Previous: Overview

This is because every 'Next' pointer should be matched by a 'Previous'
(in the node where the 'Next' points) which points back.

   'Info-validate' also checks that all menu entries and
cross-references point to actual nodes.

   'Info-validate' requires a tag table and does not work with files
that have been split.  (The 'texinfo-format-buffer' command
automatically splits large files.)  In order to use 'Info-validate' on a
large file, you must run 'texinfo-format-buffer' with an argument so
that it does not split the Info file; and you must create a tag table
for the unsplit file.

File: texinfo.info,  Node: Unsplit,  Next: Tagifying,  Prev: Using Info-validate,  Up: Running Info-validate

F.6.2 Creating an Unsplit File
------------------------------

You can run 'Info-validate' only on a single Info file that has a tag
table.  The command will not work on the indirect subfiles that are
generated when a master file is split.  If you have a large file (longer
than 300,000 bytes or so), you need to run the 'texinfo-format-buffer'
or 'makeinfo-buffer' command in such a way that it does not create
indirect subfiles.  You will also need to create a tag table for the
Info file.  After you have done this, you can run 'Info-validate' and
look for badly referenced nodes.

   The first step is to create an unsplit Info file.  To prevent
'texinfo-format-buffer' from splitting a Texinfo file into smaller Info
files, give a prefix to the 'M-x texinfo-format-buffer' command:

     C-u M-x texinfo-format-buffer

or else

     C-u C-c C-e C-b

When you do this, Texinfo will not split the file and will not create a
tag table for it.

File: texinfo.info,  Node: Tagifying,  Next: Splitting,  Prev: Unsplit,  Up: Running Info-validate

F.6.3 Tagifying a File
----------------------

After creating an unsplit Info file, you must create a tag table for it.
Visit the Info file you wish to tagify and type:

     M-x Info-tagify

(Note the uppercase 'I' in 'Info-tagify'.)  This creates an Info file
with a tag table that you can validate.

   The third step is to validate the Info file:

     M-x Info-validate

(Note the uppercase 'I' in 'Info-validate'.)  In brief, the steps are:

     C-u M-x texinfo-format-buffer
     M-x Info-tagify
     M-x Info-validate

   After you have validated the node structure, you can rerun
'texinfo-format-buffer' in the normal way so it will construct a tag
table and split the file automatically, or you can make the tag table
and split the file manually.

File: texinfo.info,  Node: Splitting,  Prev: Tagifying,  Up: Running Info-validate

F.6.4 Splitting a File Manually
-------------------------------

You should split a large file or else let the 'texinfo-format-buffer' or
'makeinfo-buffer' command do it for you automatically.  (Generally you
will let one of the formatting commands do this job for you.  *Note
Creating an Info File::.)

   The split-off files are called the indirect subfiles.

   Info files are split to save memory.  With smaller files, Emacs does
not have make such a large buffer to hold the information.

   If an Info file has more than 30 nodes, you should also make a tag
table for it.  *Note Using Info-validate::, for information about
creating a tag table.  (Again, tag tables are usually created
automatically by the formatting command; you only need to create a tag
table yourself if you are doing the job manually.  Most likely, you will
do this for a large, unsplit file on which you have run
'Info-validate'.)

   Visit the Info file you wish to tagify and split and type the two
commands:

     M-x Info-tagify
     M-x Info-split

(Note that the 'I' in 'Info' is uppercase.)

   When you use the 'Info-split' command, the buffer is modified into a
(small) Info file which lists the indirect subfiles.  This file should
be saved in place of the original visited file.  The indirect subfiles
are written in the same directory the original file is in, with names
generated by appending '-' and a number to the original file name.

   The primary file still functions as an Info file, but it contains
just the tag table and a directory of subfiles.

File: texinfo.info,  Node: Info Format Specification,  Next: GNU Free Documentation License,  Prev: Catching Mistakes,  Up: Top

