Acknowledgments
===============

The initial draft of 'The GAWK Manual' had the following
acknowledgments:

     Many people need to be thanked for their assistance in producing
     this manual.  Jay Fenlason contributed many ideas and sample
     programs.  Richard Mlynarik and Robert Chassell gave helpful
     comments on drafts of this manual.  The paper 'A Supplemental
     Document for AWK' by John W. Pierce of the Chemistry Department at
     UC San Diego, pinpointed several issues relevant both to 'awk'
     implementation and to this manual, that would otherwise have
     escaped us.

   I would like to acknowledge Richard M. Stallman, for his vision of a
better world and for his courage in founding the FSF and starting the
GNU Project.

   Earlier editions of this Info file had the following
acknowledgements:

     The following people (in alphabetical order) provided helpful
     comments on various versions of this book: Rick Adams, Dr. Nelson
     H.F. Beebe, Karl Berry, Dr. Michael Brennan, Rich Burridge, Claire
     Cloutier, Diane Close, Scott Deifik, Christopher ("Topher") Eliot,
     Jeffrey Friedl, Dr. Darrel Hankerson, Michal Jaegermann, Dr.
     Richard J. LeBlanc, Michael Lijewski, Pat Rankin, Miriam Robbins,
     Mary Sheehan, and Chuck Toporek.

     Robert J. Chassell provided much valuable advice on the use of
     Texinfo.  He also deserves special thanks for convincing me _not_
     to title this Info file 'How to Gawk Politely'.  Karl Berry helped
     significantly with the TeX part of Texinfo.

     I would like to thank Marshall and Elaine Hartholz of Seattle and
     Dr. Bert and Rita Schreiber of Detroit for large amounts of quiet
     vacation time in their homes, which allowed me to make significant
     progress on this Info file and on 'gawk' itself.

     Phil Hughes of SSC contributed in a very important way by loaning
     me his laptop GNU/Linux system, not once, but twice, which allowed
     me to do a lot of work while away from home.

     David Trueman deserves special credit; he has done a yeoman job of
     evolving 'gawk' so that it performs well and without bugs.
     Although he is no longer involved with 'gawk', working with him on
     this project was a significant pleasure.

     The intrepid members of the GNITS mailing list, and most notably
     Ulrich Drepper, provided invaluable help and feedback for the
     design of the internationalization features.

     Chuck Toporek, Mary Sheehan, and Claire Cloutier of O'Reilly &
     Associates contributed significant editorial help for this Info
     file for the 3.1 release of 'gawk'.

   Dr. Nelson Beebe, Andreas Buening, Dr. Manuel Collado, Antonio
Colombo, Stephen Davies, Scott Deifik, Akim Demaille, Daniel Richard G.,
Juan Manuel Guerrero, Darrel Hankerson, Michal Jaegermann, Ju"rgen
Kahrs, Stepan Kasal, John Malmberg, Dave Pitts, Chet Ramey, Pat Rankin,
Andrew Schorr, Corinna Vinschen, and Eli Zaretskii (in alphabetical
order) make up the current 'gawk' "crack portability team."  Without
their hard work and help, 'gawk' would not be nearly the robust,
portable program it is today.  It has been and continues to be a
pleasure working with this team of fine people.

   Notable code and documentation contributions were made by a number of
people.  *Note Contributors:: for the full list.

   Thanks to Michael Brennan for the Forewords.

   Thanks to Patrice Dumas for the new 'makeinfo' program.  Thanks to
Karl Berry, who continues to work to keep the Texinfo markup language
sane.

   Robert P.J. Day, Michael Brennan, and Brian Kernighan kindly acted as
reviewers for the 2015 edition of this Info file.  Their feedback helped
improve the final work.

   I would also like to thank Brian Kernighan for his invaluable
assistance during the testing and debugging of 'gawk', and for his
ongoing help and advice in clarifying numerous points about the
language.  We could not have done nearly as good a job on either 'gawk'
or its documentation without his help.

   Brian is in a class by himself as a programmer and technical author.
I have to thank him (yet again) for his ongoing friendship and for being
a role model to me for close to 30 years!  Having him as a reviewer is
an exciting privilege.  It has also been extremely humbling...

   I must thank my wonderful wife, Miriam, for her patience through the
many versions of this project, for her proofreading, and for sharing me
with the computer.  I would like to thank my parents for their love, and
for the grace with which they raised and educated me.  Finally, I also
must acknowledge my gratitude to G-d, for the many opportunities He has
sent my way, as well as for the gifts He has given me with which to take
advantage of those opportunities.


Arnold Robbins
Nof Ayalon
Israel
February 2015

File: gawk.info,  Node: Getting Started,  Next: Invoking Gawk,  Prev: Preface,  Up: Top

