14.1 Introduction to the 'gawk' Debugger
========================================

This minor node introduces debugging in general and begins the
discussion of debugging in 'gawk'.

* Menu:

* Debugging Concepts::          Debugging in General.
* Debugging Terms::             Additional Debugging Concepts.
* Awk Debugging::               Awk Debugging.

File: gawk.info,  Node: Debugging Concepts,  Next: Debugging Terms,  Up: Debugging

14.1.1 Debugging in General
---------------------------

(If you have used debuggers in other languages, you may want to skip
ahead to *note Awk Debugging::.)

   Of course, a debugging program cannot remove bugs for you, because it
has no way of knowing what you or your users consider a "bug" versus a
"feature."  (Sometimes, we humans have a hard time with this ourselves.)
In that case, what can you expect from such a tool?  The answer to that
depends on the language being debugged, but in general, you can expect
at least the following:

   * The ability to watch a program execute its instructions one by one,
     giving you, the programmer, the opportunity to think about what is
     happening on a time scale of seconds, minutes, or hours, rather
     than the nanosecond time scale at which the code usually runs.

   * The opportunity to not only passively observe the operation of your
     program, but to control it and try different paths of execution,
     without having to change your source files.

   * The chance to see the values of data in the program at any point in
     execution, and also to change that data on the fly, to see how that
     affects what happens afterward.  (This often includes the ability
     to look at internal data structures besides the variables you
     actually defined in your code.)

   * The ability to obtain additional information about your program's
     state or even its internal structure.

   All of these tools provide a great amount of help in using your own
skills and understanding of the goals of your program to find where it
is going wrong (or, for that matter, to better comprehend a perfectly
functional program that you or someone else wrote).

File: gawk.info,  Node: Debugging Terms,  Next: Awk Debugging,  Prev: Debugging Concepts,  Up: Debugging

14.1.2 Debugging Concepts
-------------------------

Before diving in to the details, we need to introduce several important
concepts that apply to just about all debuggers.  The following list
defines terms used throughout the rest of this major node:

"Stack frame"
     Programs generally call functions during the course of their
     execution.  One function can call another, or a function can call
     itself (recursion).  You can view the chain of called functions
     (main program calls A, which calls B, which calls C), as a stack of
     executing functions: the currently running function is the topmost
     one on the stack, and when it finishes (returns), the next one down
     then becomes the active function.  Such a stack is termed a "call
     stack".

     For each function on the call stack, the system maintains a data
     area that contains the function's parameters, local variables, and
     return value, as well as any other "bookkeeping" information needed
     to manage the call stack.  This data area is termed a "stack
     frame".

     'gawk' also follows this model, and gives you access to the call
     stack and to each stack frame.  You can see the call stack, as well
     as from where each function on the stack was invoked.  Commands
     that print the call stack print information about each stack frame
     (as detailed later on).

"Breakpoint"
     During debugging, you often wish to let the program run until it
     reaches a certain point, and then continue execution from there one
     statement (or instruction) at a time.  The way to do this is to set
     a "breakpoint" within the program.  A breakpoint is where the
     execution of the program should break off (stop), so that you can
     take over control of the program's execution.  You can add and
     remove as many breakpoints as you like.

"Watchpoint"
     A watchpoint is similar to a breakpoint.  The difference is that
     breakpoints are oriented around the code: stop when a certain point
     in the code is reached.  A watchpoint, however, specifies that
     program execution should stop when a _data value_ is changed.  This
     is useful, as sometimes it happens that a variable receives an
     erroneous value, and it's hard to track down where this happens
     just by looking at the code.  By using a watchpoint, you can stop
     whenever a variable is assigned to, and usually find the errant
     code quite quickly.

File: gawk.info,  Node: Awk Debugging,  Prev: Debugging Terms,  Up: Debugging

14.1.3 'awk' Debugging
----------------------

Debugging an 'awk' program has some specific aspects that are not shared
with programs written in other languages.

   First of all, the fact that 'awk' programs usually take input line by
line from a file or files and operate on those lines using specific
rules makes it especially useful to organize viewing the execution of
the program in terms of these rules.  As we will see, each 'awk' rule is
treated almost like a function call, with its own specific block of
instructions.

   In addition, because 'awk' is by design a very concise language, it
is easy to lose sight of everything that is going on "inside" each line
of 'awk' code.  The debugger provides the opportunity to look at the
individual primitive instructions carried out by the higher-level 'awk'
commands.

File: gawk.info,  Node: Sample Debugging Session,  Next: List of Debugger Commands,  Prev: Debugging,  Up: Debugger

