C.2 Making Additions to 'gawk'
==============================

If you find that you want to enhance 'gawk' in a significant fashion,
you are perfectly free to do so.  That is the point of having free
software; the source code is available and you are free to change it as
you want (*note Copying::).

   This minor node discusses the ways you might want to change 'gawk' as
well as any considerations you should bear in mind.

* Menu:

* Accessing The Source::        Accessing the Git repository.
* Adding Code::                 Adding code to the main body of
                                'gawk'.
* New Ports::                   Porting 'gawk' to a new operating
                                system.
* Derived Files::               Why derived files are kept in the Git
                                repository.

File: gawk.info,  Node: Accessing The Source,  Next: Adding Code,  Up: Additions

C.2.1 Accessing The 'gawk' Git Repository
-----------------------------------------

As 'gawk' is Free Software, the source code is always available.  *note
Gawk Distribution:: describes how to get and build the formal, released
versions of 'gawk'.

   However, if you want to modify 'gawk' and contribute back your
changes, you will probably wish to work with the development version.
To do so, you will need to access the 'gawk' source code repository.
The code is maintained using the Git distributed version control system
(https://git-scm.com).  You will need to install it if your system
doesn't have it.  Once you have done so, use the command:

     git clone git://git.savannah.gnu.org/gawk.git

This clones the 'gawk' repository.  If you are behind a firewall that
does not allow you to use the Git native protocol, you can still access
the repository using:

     git clone https://git.savannah.gnu.org/r/gawk.git

   Once you have made changes, you can use 'git diff' to produce a
patch, and send that to the 'gawk' maintainer; see *note Bugs::, for how
to do that.

   Once upon a time there was Git-CVS gateway for use by people who
could not install Git.  However, this gateway no longer works, so you
may have better luck using a more modern version control system like
Bazaar, that has a Git plug-in for working with Git repositories.

File: gawk.info,  Node: Adding Code,  Next: New Ports,  Prev: Accessing The Source,  Up: Additions

C.2.2 Adding New Features
-------------------------

You are free to add any new features you like to 'gawk'.  However, if
you want your changes to be incorporated into the 'gawk' distribution,
there are several steps that you need to take in order to make it
possible to include them:

  1. Before building the new feature into 'gawk' itself, consider
     writing it as an extension (*note Dynamic Extensions::).  If that's
     not possible, continue with the rest of the steps in this list.

  2. Be prepared to sign the appropriate paperwork.  In order for the
     FSF to distribute your changes, you must either place those changes
     in the public domain and submit a signed statement to that effect,
     or assign the copyright in your changes to the FSF. Both of these
     actions are easy to do and _many_ people have done so already.  If
     you have questions, please contact me (*note Bugs::), or
     <assign@gnu.org>.

  3. Get the latest version.  It is much easier for me to integrate
     changes if they are relative to the most recent distributed version
     of 'gawk', or better yet, relative to the latest code in the Git
     repository.  If your version of 'gawk' is very old, I may not be
     able to integrate your changes at all.  (*Note Getting::, for
     information on getting the latest version of 'gawk'.)

  4. See *note (Version, standards, GNU Coding Standards)Top::.  This
     document describes how GNU software should be written.  If you
     haven't read it, please do so, preferably _before_ starting to
     modify 'gawk'.  (The 'GNU Coding Standards' are available from the
     GNU Project's website (https://www.gnu.org/prep/standards/).
     Texinfo, Info, and DVI versions are also available.)

  5. Use the 'gawk' coding style.  The C code for 'gawk' follows the
     instructions in the 'GNU Coding Standards', with minor exceptions.
     The code is formatted using the traditional "K&R" style,
     particularly as regards to the placement of braces and the use of
     TABs.  In brief, the coding rules for 'gawk' are as follows:

        * Use ANSI/ISO style (prototype) function headers when defining
          functions.

        * Put the name of the function at the beginning of its own line.

        * Use '#elif' instead of nesting '#if' inside '#else'.

        * Put the return type of the function, even if it is 'int', on
          the line above the line with the name and arguments of the
          function.

        * Put spaces around parentheses used in control structures
          ('if', 'while', 'for', 'do', 'switch', and 'return').

        * Do not put spaces in front of parentheses used in function
          calls.

        * Put spaces around all C operators and after commas in function
          calls.

        * Do not use the comma operator to produce multiple side
          effects, except in 'for' loop initialization and increment
          parts, and in macro bodies.

        * Use real TABs for indenting, not spaces.

        * Use the "K&R" brace layout style.

        * Use comparisons against 'NULL' and ''\0'' in the conditions of
          'if', 'while', and 'for' statements, as well as in the 'case's
          of 'switch' statements, instead of just the plain pointer or
          character value.

        * Use 'true' and 'false' for 'bool' values, the 'NULL' symbolic
          constant for pointer values, and the character constant ''\0''
          where appropriate, instead of '1' and '0'.

        * Provide one-line descriptive comments for each function.

        * Do not use the 'alloca()' function for allocating memory off
          the stack.  Its use causes more portability trouble than is
          worth the minor benefit of not having to free the storage.
          Instead, use 'malloc()' and 'free()'.

        * Do not use comparisons of the form '! strcmp(a, b)' or
          similar.  As Henry Spencer once said, "'strcmp()' is not a
          boolean!"  Instead, use 'strcmp(a, b) == 0'.

        * If adding new bit flag values, use explicit hexadecimal
          constants ('0x001', '0x002', '0x004', and so on) instead of
          shifting one left by successive amounts ('(1<<0)', '(1<<1)',
          and so on).

          NOTE: If I have to reformat your code to follow the coding
          style used in 'gawk', I may not bother to integrate your
          changes at all.

  6. Update the documentation.  Along with your new code, please supply
     new sections and/or chapters for this Info file.  If at all
     possible, please use real Texinfo, instead of just supplying
     unformatted ASCII text (although even that is better than no
     documentation at all).  Conventions to be followed in 'GAWK:
     Effective AWK Programming' are provided after the '@bye' at the end
     of the Texinfo source file.  If possible, please update the 'man'
     page as well.

     You will also have to sign paperwork for your documentation
     changes.

  7. Submit changes as unified diffs.  Use 'diff -u -r -N' to compare
     the original 'gawk' source tree with your version.  I recommend
     using the GNU version of 'diff', or best of all, 'git diff' or 'git
     format-patch'.  Send the output produced by 'diff' to me when you
     submit your changes.  (*Note Bugs::, for the electronic mail
     information.)

     Using this format makes it easy for me to apply your changes to the
     master version of the 'gawk' source code (using 'patch').  If I
     have to apply the changes manually, using a text editor, I may not
     do so, particularly if there are lots of changes.

  8. Include an entry for the 'ChangeLog' file with your submission.
     This helps further minimize the amount of work I have to do, making
     it easier for me to accept patches.  It is simplest if you just
     make this part of your diff.

   Although this sounds like a lot of work, please remember that while
you may write the new code, I have to maintain it and support it.  If it
isn't possible for me to do that with a minimum of extra work, then I
probably will not.

File: gawk.info,  Node: New Ports,  Next: Derived Files,  Prev: Adding Code,  Up: Additions

C.2.3 Porting 'gawk' to a New Operating System
----------------------------------------------

If you want to port 'gawk' to a new operating system, there are several
steps:

  1. Follow the guidelines in *note Adding Code::, concerning coding
     style, submission of diffs, and so on.

  2. Be prepared to sign the appropriate paperwork.  In order for the
     FSF to distribute your code, you must either place your code in the
     public domain and submit a signed statement to that effect, or
     assign the copyright in your code to the FSF. Both of these actions
     are easy to do and _many_ people have done so already.  If you have
     questions, please contact me, or <gnu@gnu.org>.

  3. When doing a port, bear in mind that your code must coexist
     peacefully with the rest of 'gawk' and the other ports.  Avoid
     gratuitous changes to the system-independent parts of the code.  If
     at all possible, avoid sprinkling '#ifdef's just for your port
     throughout the code.

     If the changes needed for a particular system affect too much of
     the code, I probably will not accept them.  In such a case, you
     can, of course, distribute your changes on your own, as long as you
     comply with the GPL (*note Copying::).

  4. A number of the files that come with 'gawk' are maintained by other
     people.  Thus, you should not change them unless it is for a very
     good reason; i.e., changes are not out of the question, but changes
     to these files are scrutinized extra carefully.  The files are
     'dfa.c', 'dfa.h', 'getopt.c', 'getopt.h', 'getopt1.c',
     'getopt_int.h', 'gettext.h', 'regcomp.c', 'regex.c', 'regex.h',
     'regex_internal.c', 'regex_internal.h', and 'regexec.c'.

  5. A number of other files are provided by the GNU Autotools
     (Autoconf, Automake, and GNU 'gettext').  You should not change
     them either, unless it is for a very good reason.  The files are
     'ABOUT-NLS', 'config.guess', 'config.rpath', 'config.sub',
     'depcomp', 'INSTALL', 'install-sh', 'missing', 'mkinstalldirs',
     'xalloc.h', and 'ylwrap'.

  6. Be willing to continue to maintain the port.  Non-Unix operating
     systems are supported by volunteers who maintain the code needed to
     compile and run 'gawk' on their systems.  If no-one volunteers to
     maintain a port, it becomes unsupported and it may be necessary to
     remove it from the distribution.

  7. Supply an appropriate 'gawkmisc.???' file.  Each port has its own
     'gawkmisc.???' that implements certain operating system specific
     functions.  This is cleaner than a plethora of '#ifdef's scattered
     throughout the code.  The 'gawkmisc.c' in the main source directory
     includes the appropriate 'gawkmisc.???' file from each
     subdirectory.  Be sure to update it as well.

     Each port's 'gawkmisc.???' file has a suffix reminiscent of the
     machine or operating system for the port--for example,
     'pc/gawkmisc.pc' and 'vms/gawkmisc.vms'.  The use of separate
     suffixes, instead of plain 'gawkmisc.c', makes it possible to move
     files from a port's subdirectory into the main subdirectory,
     without accidentally destroying the real 'gawkmisc.c' file.
     (Currently, this is only an issue for the PC operating system
     ports.)

  8. Supply a 'Makefile' as well as any other C source and header files
     that are necessary for your operating system.  All your code should
     be in a separate subdirectory, with a name that is the same as, or
     reminiscent of, either your operating system or the computer
     system.  If possible, try to structure things so that it is not
     necessary to move files out of the subdirectory into the main
     source directory.  If that is not possible, then be sure to avoid
     using names for your files that duplicate the names of files in the
     main source directory.

  9. Update the documentation.  Please write a section (or sections) for
     this Info file describing the installation and compilation steps
     needed to compile and/or install 'gawk' for your system.

   Following these steps makes it much easier to integrate your changes
into 'gawk' and have them coexist happily with other operating systems'
code that is already there.

   In the code that you supply and maintain, feel free to use a coding
style and brace layout that suits your taste.

File: gawk.info,  Node: Derived Files,  Prev: New Ports,  Up: Additions

C.2.4 Why Generated Files Are Kept In Git
-----------------------------------------

If you look at the 'gawk' source in the Git repository, you will notice
that it includes files that are automatically generated by GNU
infrastructure tools, such as 'Makefile.in' from Automake and even
'configure' from Autoconf.

   This is different from many Free Software projects that do not store
the derived files, because that keeps the repository less cluttered, and
it is easier to see the substantive changes when comparing versions and
trying to understand what changed between commits.

   However, there are several reasons why the 'gawk' maintainer likes to
have everything in the repository.

   First, because it is then easy to reproduce any given version
completely, without relying upon the availability of (older, likely
obsolete, and maybe even impossible to find) other tools.

   As an extreme example, if you ever even think about trying to
compile, oh, say, the V7 'awk', you will discover that not only do you
have to bootstrap the V7 'yacc' to do so, but you also need the V7
'lex'.  And the latter is pretty much impossible to bring up on a modern
GNU/Linux system.(1)

   (Or, let's say 'gawk' 1.2 required 'bison' whatever-it-was in 1989
and that there was no 'awkgram.c' file in the repository.  Is there a
guarantee that we could find that 'bison' version?  Or that _it_ would
build?)

   If the repository has all the generated files, then it's easy to just
check them out and build.  (Or _easier_, depending upon how far back we
go.)

   And that brings us to the second (and stronger) reason why all the
files really need to be in Git.  It boils down to who do you cater
to--the 'gawk' developer(s), or the user who just wants to check out a
version and try it out?

   The 'gawk' maintainer wants it to be possible for any interested
'awk' user in the world to just clone the repository, check out the
branch of interest and build it.  Without their having to have the
correct version(s) of the autotools.(2)  That is the point of the
'bootstrap.sh' file.  It touches the various other files in the right
order such that

     # The canonical incantation for building GNU software:
     ./bootstrap.sh && ./configure && make

will _just work_.

   This is extremely important for the 'master' and 'gawk-X.Y-stable'
branches.

   Further, the 'gawk' maintainer would argue that it's also important
for the 'gawk' developers.  When he tried to check out the 'xgawk'
branch(3) to build it, he couldn't.  (No 'ltmain.sh' file, and he had no
idea how to create it, and that was not the only problem.)

   He felt _extremely_ frustrated.  With respect to that branch, the
maintainer is no different than Jane User who wants to try to build
'gawk-4.1-stable' or 'master' from the repository.

   Thus, the maintainer thinks that it's not just important, but
critical, that for any given branch, the above incantation _just works_.

   A third reason to have all the files is that without them, using 'git
bisect' to try to find the commit that introduced a bug is exceedingly
difficult.  The maintainer tried to do that on another project that
requires running bootstrapping scripts just to create 'configure' and so
on; it was really painful.  When the repository is self-contained, using
'git bisect' in it is very easy.

   What are some of the consequences and/or actions to take?

  1. We don't mind that there are differing files in the different
     branches as a result of different versions of the autotools.

       A. It's the maintainer's job to merge them and he will deal with
          it.

       B. He is really good at 'git diff x y > /tmp/diff1 ; gvim
          /tmp/diff1' to remove the diffs that aren't of interest in
          order to review code.

  2. It would certainly help if everyone used the same versions of the
     GNU tools as he does, which in general are the latest released
     versions of Automake, Autoconf, 'bison', and GNU 'gettext'.

     Installing from source is quite easy.  It's how the maintainer
     worked for years (and still works).  He had '/usr/local/bin' at the
     front of his 'PATH' and just did:

          wget https://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/PACKAGE/PACKAGE-X.Y.Z.tar.gz
          tar -xpzvf PACKAGE-X.Y.Z.tar.gz
          cd PACKAGE-X.Y.Z
          ./configure && make && make check
          make install    # as root

          NOTE: Because of the 'https://' URL, you may have to supply
          the '--no-check-certificate' option to 'wget' to download the
          file.

   Most of the above was originally written by the maintainer to other
'gawk' developers.  It raised the objection from one of the developers
"... that anybody pulling down the source from Git is not an end user."

   However, this is not true.  There are "power 'awk' users" who can
build 'gawk' (using the magic incantation shown previously) but who
can't program in C. Thus, the major branches should be kept buildable
all the time.

   It was then suggested that there be a 'cron' job to create nightly
tarballs of "the source."  Here, the problem is that there are source
trees, corresponding to the various branches!  So, nightly tarballs
aren't the answer, especially as the repository can go for weeks without
significant change being introduced.

   Fortunately, the Git server can meet this need.  For any given branch
named BRANCHNAME, use:

     wget https://git.savannah.gnu.org/cgit/gawk.git/snapshot/gawk-BRANCHNAME.tar.gz

to retrieve a snapshot of the given branch.

   ---------- Footnotes ----------

   (1) We tried.  It was painful.

   (2) There is one GNU program that is (in our opinion) severely
difficult to bootstrap from the Git repository.  For example, on the
author's old (but still working) PowerPC Macintosh with Mac OS X 10.5,
it was necessary to bootstrap a ton of software, starting with Git
itself, in order to try to work with the latest code.  It's not
pleasant, and especially on older systems, it's a big waste of time.

   Starting with the latest tarball was no picnic either.  The
maintainers had dropped '.gz' and '.bz2' files and only distribute
'.tar.xz' files.  It was necessary to bootstrap 'xz' first!

   (3) A branch (since removed) created by one of the other developers
that did not include the generated files.

File: gawk.info,  Node: Future Extensions,  Next: Implementation Limitations,  Prev: Additions,  Up: Notes

