C.5 Extension API Design
========================

This minor node documents the design of the extension API, including a
discussion of some of the history and problems that needed to be solved.

   The first version of extensions for 'gawk' was developed in the
mid-1990s and released with 'gawk' 3.1 in the late 1990s.  The basic
mechanisms and design remained unchanged for close to 15 years, until
2012.

   The old extension mechanism used data types and functions from 'gawk'
itself, with a "clever hack" to install extension functions.

   'gawk' included some sample extensions, of which a few were really
useful.  However, it was clear from the outset that the extension
mechanism was bolted onto the side and was not really well thought out.

* Menu:

* Old Extension Problems::           Problems with the old mechanism.
* Extension New Mechanism Goals::    Goals for the new mechanism.
* Extension Other Design Decisions:: Some other design decisions.
* Extension Future Growth::          Some room for future growth.

File: gawk.info,  Node: Old Extension Problems,  Next: Extension New Mechanism Goals,  Up: Extension Design

C.5.1 Problems With The Old Mechanism
-------------------------------------

The old extension mechanism had several problems:

   * It depended heavily upon 'gawk' internals.  Any time the 'NODE'
     structure(1) changed, an extension would have to be recompiled.
     Furthermore, to really write extensions required understanding
     something about 'gawk''s internal functions.  There was some
     documentation in this Info file, but it was quite minimal.

   * Being able to call into 'gawk' from an extension required linker
     facilities that are common on Unix-derived systems but that did not
     work on MS-Windows systems; users wanting extensions on MS-Windows
     had to statically link them into 'gawk', even though MS-Windows
     supports dynamic loading of shared objects.

   * The API would change occasionally as 'gawk' changed; no
     compatibility between versions was ever offered or planned for.

   Despite the drawbacks, the 'xgawk' project developers forked 'gawk'
and developed several significant extensions.  They also enhanced
'gawk''s facilities relating to file inclusion and shared object access.

   A new API was desired for a long time, but only in 2012 did the
'gawk' maintainer and the 'xgawk' developers finally start working on it
together.  More information about the 'xgawk' project is provided in
*note gawkextlib::.

   ---------- Footnotes ----------

   (1) A critical central data structure inside 'gawk'.

File: gawk.info,  Node: Extension New Mechanism Goals,  Next: Extension Other Design Decisions,  Prev: Old Extension Problems,  Up: Extension Design

C.5.2 Goals For A New Mechanism
-------------------------------

Some goals for the new API were:

   * The API should be independent of 'gawk' internals.  Changes in
     'gawk' internals should not be visible to the writer of an
     extension function.

   * The API should provide _binary_ compatibility across 'gawk'
     releases as long as the API itself does not change.

   * The API should enable extensions written in C or C++ to have
     roughly the same "appearance" to 'awk'-level code as 'awk'
     functions do.  This means that extensions should have:

        - The ability to access function parameters.

        - The ability to turn an undefined parameter into an array (call
          by reference).

        - The ability to create, access and update global variables.

        - Easy access to all the elements of an array at once ("array
          flattening") in order to loop over all the element in an easy
          fashion for C code.

        - The ability to create arrays (including 'gawk''s true arrays
          of arrays).

   Some additional important goals were:

   * The API should use only features in ISO C 90, so that extensions
     can be written using the widest range of C and C++ compilers.  The
     header should include the appropriate '#ifdef __cplusplus' and
     'extern "C"' magic so that a C++ compiler could be used.  (If using
     C++, the runtime system has to be smart enough to call any
     constructors and destructors, as 'gawk' is a C program.  As of this
     writing, this has not been tested.)

   * The API mechanism should not require access to 'gawk''s symbols(1)
     by the compile-time or dynamic linker, in order to enable creation
     of extensions that also work on MS-Windows.

   During development, it became clear that there were other features
that should be available to extensions, which were also subsequently
provided:

   * Extensions should have the ability to hook into 'gawk''s I/O
     redirection mechanism.  In particular, the 'xgawk' developers
     provided a so-called "open hook" to take over reading records.
     During development, this was generalized to allow extensions to
     hook into input processing, output processing, and two-way I/O.

   * An extension should be able to provide a "call back" function to
     perform cleanup actions when 'gawk' exits.

   * An extension should be able to provide a version string so that
     'gawk''s '--version' option can provide information about
     extensions as well.

   The requirement to avoid access to 'gawk''s symbols is, at first
glance, a difficult one to meet.

   One design, apparently used by Perl and Ruby and maybe others, would
be to make the mainline 'gawk' code into a library, with the 'gawk'
utility a small C 'main()' function linked against the library.

   This seemed like the tail wagging the dog, complicating build and
installation and making a simple copy of the 'gawk' executable from one
system to another (or one place to another on the same system!)  into a
chancy operation.

   Pat Rankin suggested the solution that was adopted.  *Note Extension
Mechanism Outline::, for the details.

   ---------- Footnotes ----------

   (1) The "symbols" are the variables and functions defined inside
'gawk'.  Access to these symbols by code external to 'gawk' loaded
dynamically at runtime is problematic on MS-Windows.

File: gawk.info,  Node: Extension Other Design Decisions,  Next: Extension Future Growth,  Prev: Extension New Mechanism Goals,  Up: Extension Design

C.5.3 Other Design Decisions
----------------------------

As an arbitrary design decision, extensions can read the values of
predefined variables and arrays (such as 'ARGV' and 'FS'), but cannot
change them, with the exception of 'PROCINFO'.

   The reason for this is to prevent an extension function from
affecting the flow of an 'awk' program outside its control.  While a
real 'awk' function can do what it likes, that is at the discretion of
the programmer.  An extension function should provide a service or make
a C API available for use within 'awk', and not mess with 'FS' or 'ARGC'
and 'ARGV'.

   In addition, it becomes easy to start down a slippery slope.  How
much access to 'gawk' facilities do extensions need?  Do they need
'getline'?  What about calling 'gsub()' or compiling regular
expressions?  What about calling into 'awk' functions?  (_That_ would be
messy.)

   In order to avoid these issues, the 'gawk' developers chose to start
with the simplest, most basic features that are still truly useful.

   Another decision is that although 'gawk' provides nice things like
MPFR, and arrays indexed internally by integers, these features are not
being brought out to the API in order to keep things simple and close to
traditional 'awk' semantics.  (In fact, arrays indexed internally by
integers are so transparent that they aren't even documented!)

   Additionally, all functions in the API check that their pointer input
parameters are not 'NULL'.  If they are, they return an error.  (It is a
good idea for extension code to verify that pointers received from
'gawk' are not 'NULL'.  Such a thing should not happen, but the 'gawk'
developers are only human, and they have been known to occasionally make
mistakes.)

   With time, the API will undoubtedly evolve; the 'gawk' developers
expect this to be driven by user needs.  For now, the current API seems
to provide a minimal yet powerful set of features for creating
extensions.

File: gawk.info,  Node: Extension Future Growth,  Prev: Extension Other Design Decisions,  Up: Extension Design

C.5.4 Room For Future Growth
----------------------------

The API can later be expanded, in two ways:

   * 'gawk' passes an "extension id" into the extension when it first
     loads the extension.  The extension then passes this id back to
     'gawk' with each function call.  This mechanism allows 'gawk' to
     identify the extension calling into it, should it need to know.

   * Similarly, the extension passes a "name space" into 'gawk' when it
     registers each extension function.  This accommodates a possible
     future mechanism for grouping extension functions and possibly
     avoiding name conflicts.

   Of course, as of this writing, no decisions have been made with
respect to any of the above.

File: gawk.info,  Node: Old Extension Mechanism,  Next: Notes summary,  Prev: Extension Design,  Up: Notes

