Glossary
********

Action
     A series of 'awk' statements attached to a rule.  If the rule's
     pattern matches an input record, 'awk' executes the rule's action.
     Actions are always enclosed in braces.  (*Note Action Overview::.)

Ada
     A programming language originally defined by the U.S. Department of
     Defense for embedded programming.  It was designed to enforce good
     Software Engineering practices.

Amazing 'awk' Assembler
     Henry Spencer at the University of Toronto wrote a retargetable
     assembler completely as 'sed' and 'awk' scripts.  It is thousands
     of lines long, including machine descriptions for several eight-bit
     microcomputers.  It is a good example of a program that would have
     been better written in another language.

Amazingly Workable Formatter ('awf')
     Henry Spencer at the University of Toronto wrote a formatter that
     accepts a large subset of the 'nroff -ms' and 'nroff -man'
     formatting commands, using 'awk' and 'sh'.

Anchor
     The regexp metacharacters '^' and '$', which force the match to the
     beginning or end of the string, respectively.

ANSI
     The American National Standards Institute.  This organization
     produces many standards, among them the standards for the C and C++
     programming languages.  These standards often become international
     standards as well.  See also "ISO."

Argument
     An argument can be two different things.  It can be an option or a
     file name passed to a command while invoking it from the command
     line, or it can be something passed to a "function" inside a
     program, e.g.  inside 'awk'.

     In the latter case, an argument can be passed to a function in two
     ways.  Either it is given to the called function by value, i.e., a
     copy of the value of the variable is made available to the called
     function, but the original variable cannot be modified by the
     function itself; or it is given by reference, i.e., a pointer to
     the interested variable is passed to the function, which can then
     directly modify it.  In 'awk' scalars are passed by value, and
     arrays are passed by reference.  See "Pass By Value/Reference."

Array
     A grouping of multiple values under the same name.  Most languages
     just provide sequential arrays.  'awk' provides associative arrays.

Assertion
     A statement in a program that a condition is true at this point in
     the program.  Useful for reasoning about how a program is supposed
     to behave.

Assignment
     An 'awk' expression that changes the value of some 'awk' variable
     or data object.  An object that you can assign to is called an
     "lvalue".  The assigned values are called "rvalues".  *Note
     Assignment Ops::.

Associative Array
     Arrays in which the indices may be numbers or strings, not just
     sequential integers in a fixed range.

'awk' Language
     The language in which 'awk' programs are written.

'awk' Program
     An 'awk' program consists of a series of "patterns" and "actions",
     collectively known as "rules".  For each input record given to the
     program, the program's rules are all processed in turn.  'awk'
     programs may also contain function definitions.

'awk' Script
     Another name for an 'awk' program.

Bash
     The GNU version of the standard shell (the Bourne-Again SHell).
     See also "Bourne Shell."

Binary
     Base-two notation, where the digits are '0'-'1'.  Since electronic
     circuitry works "naturally" in base 2 (just think of Off/On),
     everything inside a computer is calculated using base 2.  Each
     digit represents the presence (or absence) of a power of 2 and is
     called a "bit".  So, for example, the base-two number '10101' is
     the same as decimal 21, ((1 x 16) + (1 x 4) + (1 x 1)).

     Since base-two numbers quickly become very long to read and write,
     they are usually grouped by 3 (i.e., they are read as octal
     numbers), or by 4 (i.e., they are read as hexadecimal numbers).
     There is no direct way to insert base 2 numbers in a C program.  If
     need arises, such numbers are usually inserted as octal or
     hexadecimal numbers.  The number of base-two digits that fit into
     registers used for representing integer numbers in computers is a
     rough indication of the computing power of the computer itself.
     Most computers nowadays use 64 bits for representing integer
     numbers in their registers, but 32-bit, 16-bit and 8-bit registers
     have been widely used in the past.  *Note Nondecimal-numbers::.
Bit
     Short for "Binary Digit."  All values in computer memory ultimately
     reduce to binary digits: values that are either zero or one.
     Groups of bits may be interpreted differently--as integers,
     floating-point numbers, character data, addresses of other memory
     objects, or other data.  'awk' lets you work with floating-point
     numbers and strings.  'gawk' lets you manipulate bit values with
     the built-in functions described in *note Bitwise Functions::.

     Computers are often defined by how many bits they use to represent
     integer values.  Typical systems are 32-bit systems, but 64-bit
     systems are becoming increasingly popular, and 16-bit systems have
     essentially disappeared.

Boolean Expression
     Named after the English mathematician Boole.  See also "Logical
     Expression."

Bourne Shell
     The standard shell ('/bin/sh') on Unix and Unix-like systems,
     originally written by Steven R. Bourne at Bell Laboratories.  Many
     shells (Bash, 'ksh', 'pdksh', 'zsh') are generally upwardly
     compatible with the Bourne shell.

Braces
     The characters '{' and '}'.  Braces are used in 'awk' for
     delimiting actions, compound statements, and function bodies.

Bracket Expression
     Inside a "regular expression", an expression included in square
     brackets, meant to designate a single character as belonging to a
     specified character class.  A bracket expression can contain a list
     of one or more characters, like '[abc]', a range of characters,
     like '[A-Z]', or a name, delimited by ':', that designates a known
     set of characters, like '[:digit:]'.  The form of bracket
     expression enclosed between ':' is independent of the underlying
     representation of the character themselves, which could utilize the
     ASCII, EBCDIC, or Unicode codesets, depending on the architecture
     of the computer system, and on localization.  See also "Regular
     Expression."

Built-in Function
     The 'awk' language provides built-in functions that perform various
     numerical, I/O-related, and string computations.  Examples are
     'sqrt()' (for the square root of a number) and 'substr()' (for a
     substring of a string).  'gawk' provides functions for timestamp
     management, bit manipulation, array sorting, type checking, and
     runtime string translation.  (*Note Built-in::.)

Built-in Variable
     'ARGC', 'ARGV', 'CONVFMT', 'ENVIRON', 'FILENAME', 'FNR', 'FS',
     'NF', 'NR', 'OFMT', 'OFS', 'ORS', 'RLENGTH', 'RSTART', 'RS', and
     'SUBSEP' are the variables that have special meaning to 'awk'.  In
     addition, 'ARGIND', 'BINMODE', 'ERRNO', 'FIELDWIDTHS', 'FPAT',
     'IGNORECASE', 'LINT', 'PROCINFO', 'RT', and 'TEXTDOMAIN' are the
     variables that have special meaning to 'gawk'.  Changing some of
     them affects 'awk''s running environment.  (*Note Built-in
     Variables::.)

C
     The system programming language that most GNU software is written
     in.  The 'awk' programming language has C-like syntax, and this
     Info file points out similarities between 'awk' and C when
     appropriate.

     In general, 'gawk' attempts to be as similar to the 1990 version of
     ISO C as makes sense.

C Shell
     The C Shell ('csh' or its improved version, 'tcsh') is a Unix shell
     that was created by Bill Joy in the late 1970s.  The C shell was
     differentiated from other shells by its interactive features and
     overall style, which looks more like C. The C Shell is not backward
     compatible with the Bourne Shell, so special attention is required
     when converting scripts written for other Unix shells to the C
     shell, especially with regard to the management of shell variables.
     See also "Bourne Shell."

C++
     A popular object-oriented programming language derived from C.

Character Class
     See "Bracket Expression."

Character List
     See "Bracket Expression."

Character Set
     The set of numeric codes used by a computer system to represent the
     characters (letters, numbers, punctuation, etc.)  of a particular
     country or place.  The most common character set in use today is
     ASCII (American Standard Code for Information Interchange).  Many
     European countries use an extension of ASCII known as ISO-8859-1
     (ISO Latin-1).  The Unicode character set (http://www.unicode.org)
     is increasingly popular and standard, and is particularly widely
     used on GNU/Linux systems.

CHEM
     A preprocessor for 'pic' that reads descriptions of molecules and
     produces 'pic' input for drawing them.  It was written in 'awk' by
     Brian Kernighan and Jon Bentley, and is available from
     <http://netlib.org/typesetting/chem>.

Comparison Expression
     A relation that is either true or false, such as 'a < b'.
     Comparison expressions are used in 'if', 'while', 'do', and 'for'
     statements, and in patterns to select which input records to
     process.  (*Note Typing and Comparison::.)

Compiler
     A program that translates human-readable source code into
     machine-executable object code.  The object code is then executed
     directly by the computer.  See also "Interpreter."

Complemented Bracket Expression
     The negation of a "bracket expression".  All that is _not_
     described by a given bracket expression.  The symbol '^' precedes
     the negated bracket expression.  E.g.: '[^[:digit:]]' designates
     whatever character is not a digit.  '[^bad]' designates whatever
     character is not one of the letters 'b', 'a', or 'd'.  See "Bracket
     Expression."

Compound Statement
     A series of 'awk' statements, enclosed in curly braces.  Compound
     statements may be nested.  (*Note Statements::.)

Computed Regexps
     See "Dynamic Regular Expressions."

Concatenation
     Concatenating two strings means sticking them together, one after
     another, producing a new string.  For example, the string 'foo'
     concatenated with the string 'bar' gives the string 'foobar'.
     (*Note Concatenation::.)

Conditional Expression
     An expression using the '?:' ternary operator, such as 'EXPR1 ?
     EXPR2 : EXPR3'.  The expression EXPR1 is evaluated; if the result
     is true, the value of the whole expression is the value of EXPR2;
     otherwise the value is EXPR3.  In either case, only one of EXPR2
     and EXPR3 is evaluated.  (*Note Conditional Exp::.)

Control Statement
     A control statement is an instruction to perform a given operation
     or a set of operations inside an 'awk' program, if a given
     condition is true.  Control statements are: 'if', 'for', 'while',
     and 'do' (*note Statements::).

Cookie
     A peculiar goodie, token, saying or remembrance produced by or
     presented to a program.  (With thanks to Professor Doug McIlroy.)

Coprocess
     A subordinate program with which two-way communications is
     possible.

Curly Braces
     See "Braces."

Dark Corner
     An area in the language where specifications often were (or still
     are) not clear, leading to unexpected or undesirable behavior.
     Such areas are marked in this Info file with "(d.c.)"  in the text
     and are indexed under the heading "dark corner."

Data Driven
     A description of 'awk' programs, where you specify the data you are
     interested in processing, and what to do when that data is seen.

Data Objects
     These are numbers and strings of characters.  Numbers are converted
     into strings and vice versa, as needed.  (*Note Conversion::.)

Deadlock
     The situation in which two communicating processes are each waiting
     for the other to perform an action.

Debugger
     A program used to help developers remove "bugs" from (de-bug) their
     programs.

Double Precision
     An internal representation of numbers that can have fractional
     parts.  Double precision numbers keep track of more digits than do
     single precision numbers, but operations on them are sometimes more
     expensive.  This is the way 'awk' stores numeric values.  It is the
     C type 'double'.

Dynamic Regular Expression
     A dynamic regular expression is a regular expression written as an
     ordinary expression.  It could be a string constant, such as
     '"foo"', but it may also be an expression whose value can vary.
     (*Note Computed Regexps::.)

Empty String
     See "Null String."

Environment
     A collection of strings, of the form 'NAME=VAL', that each program
     has available to it.  Users generally place values into the
     environment in order to provide information to various programs.
     Typical examples are the environment variables 'HOME' and 'PATH'.

Epoch
     The date used as the "beginning of time" for timestamps.  Time
     values in most systems are represented as seconds since the epoch,
     with library functions available for converting these values into
     standard date and time formats.

     The epoch on Unix and POSIX systems is 1970-01-01 00:00:00 UTC. See
     also "GMT" and "UTC."

Escape Sequences
     A special sequence of characters used for describing nonprinting
     characters, such as '\n' for newline or '\033' for the ASCII ESC
     (Escape) character.  (*Note Escape Sequences::.)

Extension
     An additional feature or change to a programming language or
     utility not defined by that language's or utility's standard.
     'gawk' has (too) many extensions over POSIX 'awk'.

FDL
     See "Free Documentation License."

Field
     When 'awk' reads an input record, it splits the record into pieces
     separated by whitespace (or by a separator regexp that you can
     change by setting the predefined variable 'FS').  Such pieces are
     called fields.  If the pieces are of fixed length, you can use the
     built-in variable 'FIELDWIDTHS' to describe their lengths.  If you
     wish to specify the contents of fields instead of the field
     separator, you can use the predefined variable 'FPAT' to do so.
     (*Note Field Separators::, *note Constant Size::, and *note
     Splitting By Content::.)

Flag
     A variable whose truth value indicates the existence or
     nonexistence of some condition.

Floating-Point Number
     Often referred to in mathematical terms as a "rational" or real
     number, this is just a number that can have a fractional part.  See
     also "Double Precision" and "Single Precision."

Format
     Format strings control the appearance of output in the 'strftime()'
     and 'sprintf()' functions, and in the 'printf' statement as well.
     Also, data conversions from numbers to strings are controlled by
     the format strings contained in the predefined variables 'CONVFMT'
     and 'OFMT'.  (*Note Control Letters::.)

Fortran
     Shorthand for FORmula TRANslator, one of the first programming
     languages available for scientific calculations.  It was created by
     John Backus, and has been available since 1957.  It is still in use
     today.

Free Documentation License
     This document describes the terms under which this Info file is
     published and may be copied.  (*Note GNU Free Documentation
     License::.)

Free Software Foundation
     A nonprofit organization dedicated to the production and
     distribution of freely distributable software.  It was founded by
     Richard M. Stallman, the author of the original Emacs editor.  GNU
     Emacs is the most widely used version of Emacs today.

FSF
     See "Free Software Foundation."

Function
     A part of an 'awk' program that can be invoked from every point of
     the program, to perform a task.  'awk' has several built-in
     functions.  Users can define their own functions in every part of
     the program.  Function can be recursive, i.e., they may invoke
     themselves.  *Note Functions::.  In 'gawk' it is also possible to
     have functions shared among different programs, and included where
     required using the '@include' directive (*note Include Files::).
     In 'gawk' the name of the function that should be invoked can be
     generated at run time, i.e., dynamically.  The 'gawk' extension API
     provides constructor functions (*note Constructor Functions::).

'gawk'
     The GNU implementation of 'awk'.

General Public License
     This document describes the terms under which 'gawk' and its source
     code may be distributed.  (*Note Copying::.)

GMT
     "Greenwich Mean Time."  This is the old term for UTC. It is the
     time of day used internally for Unix and POSIX systems.  See also
     "Epoch" and "UTC."

GNU
     "GNU's not Unix".  An on-going project of the Free Software
     Foundation to create a complete, freely distributable,
     POSIX-compliant computing environment.

GNU/Linux
     A variant of the GNU system using the Linux kernel, instead of the
     Free Software Foundation's Hurd kernel.  The Linux kernel is a
     stable, efficient, full-featured clone of Unix that has been ported
     to a variety of architectures.  It is most popular on PC-class
     systems, but runs well on a variety of other systems too.  The
     Linux kernel source code is available under the terms of the GNU
     General Public License, which is perhaps its most important aspect.

GPL
     See "General Public License."

Hexadecimal
     Base 16 notation, where the digits are '0'-'9' and 'A'-'F', with
     'A' representing 10, 'B' representing 11, and so on, up to 'F' for
     15.  Hexadecimal numbers are written in C using a leading '0x', to
     indicate their base.  Thus, '0x12' is 18 ((1 x 16) + 2).  *Note
     Nondecimal-numbers::.

I/O
     Abbreviation for "Input/Output," the act of moving data into and/or
     out of a running program.

Input Record
     A single chunk of data that is read in by 'awk'.  Usually, an 'awk'
     input record consists of one line of text.  (*Note Records::.)

Integer
     A whole number, i.e., a number that does not have a fractional
     part.

Internationalization
     The process of writing or modifying a program so that it can use
     multiple languages without requiring further source code changes.

Interpreter
     A program that reads human-readable source code directly, and uses
     the instructions in it to process data and produce results.  'awk'
     is typically (but not always) implemented as an interpreter.  See
     also "Compiler."

Interval Expression
     A component of a regular expression that lets you specify repeated
     matches of some part of the regexp.  Interval expressions were not
     originally available in 'awk' programs.

ISO
     The International Organization for Standardization.  This
     organization produces international standards for many things,
     including programming languages, such as C and C++.  In the
     computer arena, important standards like those for C, C++, and
     POSIX become both American national and ISO international standards
     simultaneously.  This Info file refers to Standard C as "ISO C"
     throughout.  See the ISO website
     (https://www.iso.org/iso/home/about.htm) for more information about
     the name of the organization and its language-independent
     three-letter acronym.

Java
     A modern programming language originally developed by Sun
     Microsystems (now Oracle) supporting Object-Oriented programming.
     Although usually implemented by compiling to the instructions for a
     standard virtual machine (the JVM), the language can be compiled to
     native code.

Keyword
     In the 'awk' language, a keyword is a word that has special
     meaning.  Keywords are reserved and may not be used as variable
     names.

     'gawk''s keywords are: 'BEGIN', 'BEGINFILE', 'END', 'ENDFILE',
     'break', 'case', 'continue', 'default', 'delete', 'do...while',
     'else', 'exit', 'for...in', 'for', 'function', 'func', 'if',
     'next', 'nextfile', 'switch', and 'while'.

Korn Shell
     The Korn Shell ('ksh') is a Unix shell which was developed by David
     Korn at Bell Laboratories in the early 1980s.  The Korn Shell is
     backward-compatible with the Bourne shell and includes many
     features of the C shell.  See also "Bourne Shell."

Lesser General Public License
     This document describes the terms under which binary library
     archives or shared objects, and their source code may be
     distributed.

LGPL
     See "Lesser General Public License."

Linux
     See "GNU/Linux."

Localization
     The process of providing the data necessary for an
     internationalized program to work in a particular language.

Logical Expression
     An expression using the operators for logic, AND, OR, and NOT,
     written '&&', '||', and '!' in 'awk'.  Often called Boolean
     expressions, after the mathematician who pioneered this kind of
     mathematical logic.

Lvalue
     An expression that can appear on the left side of an assignment
     operator.  In most languages, lvalues can be variables or array
     elements.  In 'awk', a field designator can also be used as an
     lvalue.

Matching
     The act of testing a string against a regular expression.  If the
     regexp describes the contents of the string, it is said to "match"
     it.

Metacharacters
     Characters used within a regexp that do not stand for themselves.
     Instead, they denote regular expression operations, such as
     repetition, grouping, or alternation.

Nesting
     Nesting is where information is organized in layers, or where
     objects contain other similar objects.  In 'gawk' the '@include'
     directive can be nested.  The "natural" nesting of arithmetic and
     logical operations can be changed using parentheses (*note
     Precedence::).

No-op
     An operation that does nothing.

Null String
     A string with no characters in it.  It is represented explicitly in
     'awk' programs by placing two double quote characters next to each
     other ('""').  It can appear in input data by having two successive
     occurrences of the field separator appear next to each other.

Number
     A numeric-valued data object.  Modern 'awk' implementations use
     double precision floating-point to represent numbers.  Ancient
     'awk' implementations used single precision floating-point.

Octal
     Base-eight notation, where the digits are '0'-'7'.  Octal numbers
     are written in C using a leading '0', to indicate their base.
     Thus, '013' is 11 ((1 x 8) + 3).  *Note Nondecimal-numbers::.

Output Record
     A single chunk of data that is written out by 'awk'.  Usually, an
     'awk' output record consists of one or more lines of text.  *Note
     Records::.

Pattern
     Patterns tell 'awk' which input records are interesting to which
     rules.

     A pattern is an arbitrary conditional expression against which
     input is tested.  If the condition is satisfied, the pattern is
     said to "match" the input record.  A typical pattern might compare
     the input record against a regular expression.  (*Note Pattern
     Overview::.)

PEBKAC
     An acronym describing what is possibly the most frequent source of
     computer usage problems.  (Problem Exists Between Keyboard And
     Chair.)

Plug-in
     See "Extensions."

POSIX
     The name for a series of standards that specify a Portable
     Operating System interface.  The "IX" denotes the Unix heritage of
     these standards.  The main standard of interest for 'awk' users is
     'IEEE Standard for Information Technology, Standard 1003.1-2008'.
     The 2008 POSIX standard can be found online at
     <http://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/>.

Precedence
     The order in which operations are performed when operators are used
     without explicit parentheses.

Private
     Variables and/or functions that are meant for use exclusively by
     library functions and not for the main 'awk' program.  Special care
     must be taken when naming such variables and functions.  (*Note
     Library Names::.)

Range (of input lines)
     A sequence of consecutive lines from the input file(s).  A pattern
     can specify ranges of input lines for 'awk' to process or it can
     specify single lines.  (*Note Pattern Overview::.)

Record
     See "Input record" and "Output record."

Recursion
     When a function calls itself, either directly or indirectly.  If
     this is clear, stop, and proceed to the next entry.  Otherwise,
     refer to the entry for "recursion."

Redirection
     Redirection means performing input from something other than the
     standard input stream, or performing output to something other than
     the standard output stream.

     You can redirect input to the 'getline' statement using the '<',
     '|', and '|&' operators.  You can redirect the output of the
     'print' and 'printf' statements to a file or a system command,
     using the '>', '>>', '|', and '|&' operators.  (*Note Getline::,
     and *note Redirection::.)

Reference Counts
     An internal mechanism in 'gawk' to minimize the amount of memory
     needed to store the value of string variables.  If the value
     assumed by a variable is used in more than one place, only one copy
     of the value itself is kept, and the associated reference count is
     increased when the same value is used by an additional variable,
     and decreased when the related variable is no longer in use.  When
     the reference count goes to zero, the memory space used to store
     the value of the variable is freed.

Regexp
     See "Regular Expression."

Regular Expression
     A regular expression ("regexp" for short) is a pattern that denotes
     a set of strings, possibly an infinite set.  For example, the
     regular expression 'R.*xp' matches any string starting with the
     letter 'R' and ending with the letters 'xp'.  In 'awk', regular
     expressions are used in patterns and in conditional expressions.
     Regular expressions may contain escape sequences.  (*Note
     Regexp::.)

Regular Expression Constant
     A regular expression constant is a regular expression written
     within slashes, such as '/foo/'.  This regular expression is chosen
     when you write the 'awk' program and cannot be changed during its
     execution.  (*Note Regexp Usage::.)

Regular Expression Operators
     See "Metacharacters."

Rounding
     Rounding the result of an arithmetic operation can be tricky.  More
     than one way of rounding exists, and in 'gawk' it is possible to
     choose which method should be used in a program.  *Note Setting the
     rounding mode::.

Rule
     A segment of an 'awk' program that specifies how to process single
     input records.  A rule consists of a "pattern" and an "action".
     'awk' reads an input record; then, for each rule, if the input
     record satisfies the rule's pattern, 'awk' executes the rule's
     action.  Otherwise, the rule does nothing for that input record.

Rvalue
     A value that can appear on the right side of an assignment
     operator.  In 'awk', essentially every expression has a value.
     These values are rvalues.

Scalar
     A single value, be it a number or a string.  Regular variables are
     scalars; arrays and functions are not.

Search Path
     In 'gawk', a list of directories to search for 'awk' program source
     files.  In the shell, a list of directories to search for
     executable programs.

'sed'
     See "Stream Editor."

Seed
     The initial value, or starting point, for a sequence of random
     numbers.

Shell
     The command interpreter for Unix and POSIX-compliant systems.  The
     shell works both interactively, and as a programming language for
     batch files, or shell scripts.

Short-Circuit
     The nature of the 'awk' logical operators '&&' and '||'.  If the
     value of the entire expression is determinable from evaluating just
     the lefthand side of these operators, the righthand side is not
     evaluated.  (*Note Boolean Ops::.)

Side Effect
     A side effect occurs when an expression has an effect aside from
     merely producing a value.  Assignment expressions, increment and
     decrement expressions, and function calls have side effects.
     (*Note Assignment Ops::.)

Single Precision
     An internal representation of numbers that can have fractional
     parts.  Single precision numbers keep track of fewer digits than do
     double precision numbers, but operations on them are sometimes less
     expensive in terms of CPU time.  This is the type used by some
     ancient versions of 'awk' to store numeric values.  It is the C
     type 'float'.

Space
     The character generated by hitting the space bar on the keyboard.

Special File
     A file name interpreted internally by 'gawk', instead of being
     handed directly to the underlying operating system--for example,
     '/dev/stderr'.  (*Note Special Files::.)

Statement
     An expression inside an 'awk' program in the action part of a
     pattern-action rule, or inside an 'awk' function.  A statement can
     be a variable assignment, an array operation, a loop, etc.

Stream Editor
     A program that reads records from an input stream and processes
     them one or more at a time.  This is in contrast with batch
     programs, which may expect to read their input files in entirety
     before starting to do anything, as well as with interactive
     programs which require input from the user.

String
     A datum consisting of a sequence of characters, such as 'I am a
     string'.  Constant strings are written with double quotes in the
     'awk' language and may contain escape sequences.  (*Note Escape
     Sequences::.)

Tab
     The character generated by hitting the 'TAB' key on the keyboard.
     It usually expands to up to eight spaces upon output.

Text Domain
     A unique name that identifies an application.  Used for grouping
     messages that are translated at runtime into the local language.

Timestamp
     A value in the "seconds since the epoch" format used by Unix and
     POSIX systems.  Used for the 'gawk' functions 'mktime()',
     'strftime()', and 'systime()'.  See also "Epoch," "GMT," and "UTC."

Unix
     A computer operating system originally developed in the early
     1970's at AT&T Bell Laboratories.  It initially became popular in
     universities around the world and later moved into commercial
     environments as a software development system and network server
     system.  There are many commercial versions of Unix, as well as
     several work-alike systems whose source code is freely available
     (such as GNU/Linux, NetBSD (http://www.netbsd.org), FreeBSD
     (https://www.freebsd.org), and OpenBSD (http://www.openbsd.org)).

UTC
     The accepted abbreviation for "Universal Coordinated Time."  This
     is standard time in Greenwich, England, which is used as a
     reference time for day and date calculations.  See also "Epoch" and
     "GMT."

Variable
     A name for a value.  In 'awk', variables may be either scalars or
     arrays.

Whitespace
     A sequence of space, TAB, or newline characters occurring inside an
     input record or a string.

File: gawk.info,  Node: Copying,  Next: GNU Free Documentation License,  Prev: Glossary,  Up: Top

