B.1 Fragmentation and Maximum Transmission Unit

   An immediate concern of using an encapsulation mechanism is that of
   restrictions based upon MTU size.  The source of a Clear Datagram is
   going to generate packets consistent with MTU of the interface over
   which datagram is transmitted.  If these packets reach an
   Encapsulator and are encapsulated, they may be fragmented if they are
   larger than the MTU of the Encapsulator, even though the physical
   interfaces of the source and Encapsulator may have the same MTU.
   Because the Encapsulated Datagram is sent to the Decapsulator using
   IP, there is no problem in allowing IP to perform fragmentation and
   reassembly.  However, fragmentation is known to be inefficient and is
   generally avoided.  Because a new header is being prepended to the
   Clear Datagram by the encapsulation process, the likelihood of
   fragmentation occurring is increased.  If the Encapsulator decides to
   disallow fragmentation through the Encapsulation Space, it must send
   an ICMP message back to the source.  This means that the MTU of the
   interface in the encapsulation space is effectively smaller than that
   of the physical MTU of the interface.

   Fragmentation by intermediate User Space Gateways introduces another



Woodburn & Mills                                               [Page 12]

RFC 1241                 Internet Encapsulation                July 1991


   problem.  Fragmentation occurs at the IP level.  If a TCP protocol is
   in use and fragmentation occurs, the TCP header is contained in the
   first fragment, but not the following fragments.  [3] If these
   fragments are forwarded by an Encapsulator, discrimination of the
   Clear Header for a given flow will only be able to occur on the IP
   header portion of the Clear Header.  If discrimination is attempted
   on the TCP portion of the header, then only the first fragment will
   be matched, while remaining fragments will not.

