B.2 ICMP Messages

   The most controversial aspect of encapsulation is the handling of
   ICMP messages. [1] Because the Encapsulation Header contains the
   source address of the Encapsulator in the Encapsulation Space, ICMP
   messages which occur within the Encapsulation Space will be sent back
   to the Encapsulator.  Once the Encapsulator receives the ICMP
   message, the question is what should the next action be.  Since the
   original source of the Clear Datagram knows nothing about the
   Encapsulation Space, it does not make sense to forward an ICMP
   message on to it and ICMP message are not supposed to beget ICMP
   messages.  Yet not sending the original source something may break
   some important mechanisms.

   In addition to deciding what to forward to the source of the Clear
   Datagram, there is the problem of possibly not having enough
   information to send anything at all back to the source.  An ICMP
   message returns the header of the offending message and the first
   eight octets of the data after the header.  For the case of the
   encapsulation protocol, this translates to the IP portion of the
   Encapsulation Header, the first eight octets of the Encapsulation
   Protocol Header, and nothing else.  The contents of the Clear
   Datagram are completely lost.  Therefore, for the Encapsulator to
   send an ICMP message back to the source it has to reconstruct the
   Clear Header.  However, it is essentially impossible to reproduce the
   exact header.

   For the purpose of this specification, the Flow ID has been assumed
   to be a unique one way mapping from a Clear Header.  There is no
   guarantee that the Flow ID could be used to map back to the Clear
   Header, since several headers potentially map to the same flow.  With
   there being no effective way to regenerate the original datagram,
   some compromises must be examined.

   For each of the possible ICMP messages, the alternatives and impact
   will be assessed.  There are three categories of ICMP message
   involved.  The first is those ICMP messages which are not applicable
   in the context of Encapsulation.  These are: Echo/Echo Reply and
   Timestamp/Timestamp Reply.



Woodburn & Mills                                               [Page 13]

RFC 1241                 Internet Encapsulation                July 1991


   The second category are those ICMP messages which concern mechanisms
   local to the encapsulation domain.  These are messages which would
   not make sense to the original source if it did receive them.  In
   these cases the encapsulator will have to decide what to do, but no
   ICMP message need be sent back to the original source.  The datagram
   will simply be lost, IP is not meant to be a reliable protocol.
   Subsequent messages received for encapsulation may cause the
   encapsulator to generate ICMP Destination Unreachable messages back
   to the original source if the encapsulator can no longer send
   messages to the destination decapsulator.  This requires that ICMP
   messages inside the encapsulation domain affect the mapping from the
   Flow ID.  ICMP messages in the second category are: Parameter
   Problem, Redirect, Destination Unreachable, Time Exceeded.

   Finally there is one ICMP message which has direct bearing on the
   operation of the original source of datagrams destined for
   encapsulation, the ICMP Source Quench message.  The only possible
   mechanism available to the Encapsulator to handle this message is for
   the source quench message set a flag for the offending Flow ID such
   that subsequent messages that map the Flow cause the generation of a
   source quench back to the original source before the datagram is
   encapsulated.

   This last mechanism may be a solution for the more general problem.
   The rule of thumb could be that when an ICMP message is received for
   a given flow, then flag the Flow so that then next message
   encapsulated will cause the next message encapsulated on that flow to
   force an ICMP message to the source.  After the ICMP message is sent
   to the source, the mechanism could be reset.  This would effectively
   cause every other packet to receive an ICMP message if there were a
   persistent problem.  This mechanism is probably only safe for
   Unreachable messages and Source Quench.

