3.  Protocol Overview

   There is no provision for peer discovery, acquisition, or
   authentication in NTP.  Data integrity is provided by the IP and UDP
   checksums.  No reachability, circuit-management, duplicate-detection
   or retransmission facilities are provided or necessary.  The service
   can operate in a symmetric mode, in which servers and clients are
   indistinguishable yet maintain a small amount of state information,
   or in an unsymmetric mode in which servers need maintain no client
   state other than that contained in the client request.  Moreover,
   only a single NTP message format is necessary, which simplifies
   implementation and can be used in a variety of solicited or
   unsolicited polling mechanisms.

   In what may be the most common (unsymmetric) mode a client sends an


Mills                                                           [Page 2]



RFC 958                                                        September
Network Time Protocol


   NTP message to one or more servers and processes the replies as
   received.  The server interchanges addresses and ports, fills in or
   overwrites certain fields in the message, recalculates the checksum
   and returns it immediately.  Information included in the NTP message
   allows each client/server peer to determine the timekeeping
   characteristics of its other peers, including the expected accuracies
   of their clocks. Using this information each peer is able to select
   the best time from possibly several other clocks, update the local
   clock and estimate its accuracy.

   It should be recognized that clock synchronization requires by its
   nature long periods and multiple comparisons in order to maintain
   accurate timekeeping.  While only a few comparisons are usually
   adequate to maintain local time to within a second, primarily to
   protect against broken hardware or synchronization failure, periods
   of hours or days and tens or hundreds of comparisons are required to
   maintain local time to within a few tens of milliseconds.
   Fortunately, the frequency of comparisons can be quite small and
   almost always non-intrusive to normal network operations.

