INCOMPATIBLE CHANGES				*incompatible-6*

These changes are incompatible with previous releases.  Check this list if you
run into a problem when upgrading from Vim 5.x to 6.0


Cursor position in Visual mode			*curpos-visual*
------------------------------

When going from one window to another window on the same buffer while in
Visual mode, the cursor position of the other window is adjusted to keep the
same Visual area.  This can be used to set the start of the Visual area in one
window and the end in another.  In vim 5.x the cursor position of the other
window would be used, which could be anywhere and was not very useful.


Substitute command Vi compatible		*substitute-CR*
--------------------------------

The substitute string (the "to" part of the substitute command) has been made
Vi compatible.  Previously a CTRL-V had a special meaning and could be used to
prevent a <CR> to insert a line break.  This made it impossible to insert a
CTRL-V before a line break.  Now a backslash is used to prevent a <CR> to
cause a line break.  Since the number of backslashes is halved, it is still
possible to insert a line break at the end of the line.  This now works just
like Vi, but it's not compatible with Vim versions before 6.0.

When a ":s" command doesn't make any substitutions, it no longer sets the '[
and '] marks.  This is not related to Vi, since it doesn't have these marks.


Global option values introduced			*new-global-values*
-------------------------------

There are now global values for options which are local to a buffer or window.
Previously the local options were copied from one buffer to another.  When
editing another file this could cause option values from a modeline to be used
for the wrong file.  Now the global values are used when entering a buffer
that has not been used before.  Also, when editing another buffer in a window,
the local window options are reset to their global values.  The ":set" command
sets both the local and global values, this is still compatible.  But a
modeline only sets the local value, this is not backwards compatible.

":let &opt = val" now sets the local and global values, like ":set".  New
commands have been added to set the global or local value:
	:let &opt = val		like ":set"
	:let &g:opt = val	like ":setglobal"
	:let &l:opt = val	like ":setlocal"


'fileencoding' changed				*fileencoding-changed*
----------------------

'fileencoding' was used in Vim 5.x to set the encoding used inside all of Vim.
This was a bit strange, because it was local to a buffer and worked for all
buffers.  It could never be different between buffers, because it changed the
way text in all buffers was interpreted.
It is now used for the encoding of the file related to the buffer.  If you
still set 'fileencoding' it is likely to be overwritten by the detected
encoding from 'fileencodings', thus it is "mostly harmless".
The old FileEncoding autocommand now does the same as the new EncodingChanged
event.


Digraphs changed				*digraphs-changed*
----------------

The default digraphs now correspond to RFC1345.  This is very different from
what was used in Vim 5.x. |digraphs|


Filetype detection changed			*filetypedetect-changed*
--------------------------

The filetype detection previously was using the "filetype" autocommand group.
This caused confusion with the FileType event name (case is ignored).  The
group is now called "filetypedetect".  It still works, but if the "filetype"
group is used the autocommands will not be removed by ":filetype off".
   The support for 'runtimepath' has made the "myfiletypefile" and
"mysyntaxfile" mechanism obsolete.  They are still used for backwards
compatibility.

The connection between the FileType event and setting the 'syntax' option was
previously in the "syntax" autocommand group.  That caused confusion with the
Syntax event name.  The group is now called "syntaxset".

The distributed syntax files no longer contain "syntax clear".  That makes it
possible to include one in the other without tricks.  The syntax is now
cleared when the 'syntax' option is set (by an autocommand added from
synload.vim).  This makes the syntax cleared when the value of 'syntax' does
not correspond to a syntax file.  Previously the existing highlighting was
kept.


Unlisted buffers introduced			*new-unlisted-buffers*
---------------------------

There is now a difference between buffers which don't appear in the buffer
list and buffers which are really not in the buffer list.  Commands like
":ls", ":bnext", ":blast" and the Buffers menu will skip buffers not in the
buffer list. |unlisted-buffer|
The 'buflisted' option can be used to make a buffer appear in the buffer list
or not.

Several commands that previously added a buffer to the buffer list now create
an unlisted buffer.  This means that a ":bnext" and ":ball" will not find these
files until they have actually been edited.  For example, buffers used for the
alternative file by ":write file" and ":read file".
   Other commands previously completely deleted a buffer and now only remove
the buffer from the buffer list.  Commands relying on a buffer not to be
present might fail.  For example, a ":bdelete" command in an autocommand that
relied on something following to fail (was used in the automatic tests).
|:bwipeout| can be used for the old meaning of ":bdelete".

The BufDelete autocommand event is now triggered when a buffer is removed from
the buffer list.  The BufCreate event is only triggered when a buffer is
created that is added to the buffer list, or when an existing buffer is added
to the buffer list.  BufAdd is a new name for BufCreate.
The new BufNew event is for creating any buffer and BufWipeout for really
deleting a buffer.

When doing Insert mode completion, only buffers in the buffer list are
scanned.  Added the 'U' flag to 'complete' to do completion from unlisted
buffers.

Unlisted buffers are not stored in a viminfo file.


CTRL-U in Command-line mode changed		*CTRL-U-changed*
-----------------------------------

Using CTRL-U when editing the command line cleared the whole line.  Most
shells only delete the characters before the cursor.  Made it work like that.
(Steve Wall)

You can get the old behavior with CTRL-E CTRL-U: >
	:cnoremap <C-U> <C-E><C-U>


Ctags gone					*ctags-gone*
----------

Ctags is no longer part of the Vim distribution.  It's now a grown-up program
by itself, it deserves to be distributed separately.
Ctags can be found here: http://ctags.sf.net/.


Documentation reorganized			*documentation-6*
-------------------------

The documentation has been reorganized, an item may not be where you found it
in Vim 5.x.
- The user manual was added, some items have been moved to it from the
  reference manual.
- The quick reference is now in a separate file (so that it can be printed).

The examples in the documentation were previously marked with a ">" in the
first column.  This made it difficult to copy/paste them.  There is now a
single ">" before the example and it ends at a "<" or a non-blank in the first
column.  This also looks better without highlighting.

'helpfile' is no longer used to find the help tags file.  This allows a user
to add its own help files (e.g., for plugins).


Modeless selection and clipboard		*modeless-and-clipboard*
--------------------------------

The modeless selection is used to select text when Visual mode can't be used,
for example when editing the command line or at the more prompt.
In Vim 5.x the modeless selection was always used.  On MS-Windows this caused
the clipboard to be overwritten, with no way to avoid that.  The modeless
selection now obeys the 'a' and 'A' flags in 'guioptions' and "autoselect" and
"autoselectml" in 'clipboard'.  By default there is no automatic copy on
MS-Windows.  Use the |c_CTRL-Y| command to manually copy the selection.

To get the old behavior back, do this: >

	:set clipboard^=autoselectml guioptions+=A


Small incompatibilities				*incomp-small-6*
-----------------------

'backupdir', 'cdpath', 'directory', 'equalprg', 'errorfile', 'formatprg',
'grepprg', 'helpfile', 'makeef', 'makeprg', 'keywordprg', 'cscopeprg',
'viminfo' and 'runtimepath' can no longer be set from a modeline, for better
security.

Removed '_' from the 'breakat' default: It's commonly used in keywords.

The default for 'mousehide' is on, because this works well for most people.

The Amiga binary is now always compiled with "big" features.  The "big" binary
archive no longer exists.

The items "[RO]", "[+]", "[help]", "[Preview]" and "[filetype]" in
'statusline' no longer have a leading space.

Non-Unix systems: When expanding wildcards for the Vim arguments, don't use
'suffixes'.  It now works as if the shell had expanded the arguments.

The 'lisp', 'smartindent' and 'cindent' options are not switched off when
'paste' is set.  The auto-indenting is disabled when 'paste' is set, but
manual indenting with "=" still works.

When formatting with "=" uses 'cindent' or 'indentexpr' indenting, and there
is no change in indent, this is not counted as a change ('modified' isn't set
and there is nothing to undo).

Report 'modified' as changed when 'fileencoding' or 'fileformat' was set.
Thus it reflects the possibility to abandon the buffer without losing changes.

The "Save As" menu entry now edits the saved file.  Most people expect it to
work like this.

A buffer for a directory is no longer added to the Buffers menu.

Renamed <Return> to <Enter>, since that's what it's called on most keyboards.
Thus it's now the hit-enter prompt instead of the hit-return prompt.
Can map <Enter> just like <CR> or <Return>.

The default for the 'viminfo' option is now '20,"50,h when 'compatible' isn't
set.  Most people will want to use it, including beginners, but it required
setting the option, which isn't that easy.

After using ":colder" the newer error lists are overwritten.  This makes it
possible to use ":grep" to browse in a tree-like way.  Must use ":cnewer 99"
to get the old behavior.

The patterns in 'errorformat' would sometimes ignore case (MS-Windows) and
sometimes not (Unix).  Now case is always ignored.  Add "\C" to the pattern to
match case.

The 16 bit MS-DOS version is now compiled without the +listcmds feature
(buffer list manipulation commands).  They are not often needed and this
executable needs to be smaller.

'sessionoptions' now includes "curdir" by default.  This means that restoring
a session will result in the current directory being restored, instead of
going to the directory where the session file is located.

A session deleted all buffers, deleting all marks.  Now keep the buffer list,
it shouldn't hurt for some existing buffers to remain present.
When the argument list is empty ":argdel *" caused an error message.

No longer put the search pattern from a tag jump in the history.

Use "SpecialKey" highlighting for unprintable characters instead of "NonText".
The idea is that unprintable text or any text that's displayed differently
from the characters in the file is using "SpecialKey", and "NonText" is used
for text that doesn't really exist in the file.

Motif now uses the system default colors for the menu and scrollbar.  Used to
be grey.  It's still possible to set the colors with ":highlight" commands and
resources.

Formatting text with "gq" breaks a paragraph at a non-empty blank line.
Previously the line would be removed, which wasn't very useful.

":normal" does no longer hang when the argument ends in half a command.
Previously Vim would wait for more characters to be typed, without updating
the screen.  Now it pretends an <Esc> was typed.

Bitmaps for the toolbar are no longer searched for in "$VIM/bitmaps" but in
the "bitmaps" directories in 'runtimepath'.

Now use the Cmdline-mode menus for the hit-enter prompt instead of the Normal
mode menus.  This generally works better and allows using the "Copy" menu to
produce CTRL-Y to copy the modeless selection.

Moved the font selection from the Window to the Edit menu, together with the
other settings.

The default values for 'isfname' include more characters to make "gf" work
better.

Changed the license for the documentation to the Open Publication License.
This seemed fair, considering the inclusion of parts of the Vim book, which is
also published under the OPL.  The downside is that we can't force someone who
would sell copies of the manual to contribute to Uganda.

After  "ayy  don't let  ""yy  or  :let @" = val  overwrite the "a register.
Use the unnamed register instead.

MSDOS: A pattern "*.*" previously also matched a file name without a dot.
This was inconsistent with other versions.

In Insert mode, CTRL-O CTRL-\ CTRL-N {cmd} remains in Normal mode.  Previously
it would go back to Insert mode, thus confusing the meaning of CTRL-\ CTRL-N,
which is supposed to take us to Normal mode (especially in ":amenu").

Allow using ":" commands after an operator.  Could be used to implement a new
movement command.  Thus it no longer aborts a pending operator.

For the Amiga the "-d {device}" argument was possible.  When compiled with the
diff feature, this no longer works.  Use "-dev {device}" instead. |-dev|

Made the default mappings for <S-Insert> in Insert mode insert the text
literally, avoids that special characters like BS cause side effects.

Using ":confirm" applied to the rest of the line.  Now it applies only to the
command right after it.  Thus ":confirm if x | edit | endif" no longer works,
use ":if x | confirm edit | endif".  This was the original intention, that it
worked differently was a bug.

