2.2 Command-Line Options
========================

Options begin with a dash and consist of a single character.  GNU-style
long options consist of two dashes and a keyword.  The keyword can be
abbreviated, as long as the abbreviation allows the option to be
uniquely identified.  If the option takes an argument, either the
keyword is immediately followed by an equals sign ('=') and the
argument's value, or the keyword and the argument's value are separated
by whitespace.  If a particular option with a value is given more than
once, it is the last value that counts.

   Each long option for 'gawk' has a corresponding POSIX-style short
option.  The long and short options are interchangeable in all contexts.
The following list describes options mandated by the POSIX standard:

'-F FS'
'--field-separator FS'
     Set the 'FS' variable to FS (*note Field Separators::).

'-f SOURCE-FILE'
'--file SOURCE-FILE'
     Read the 'awk' program source from SOURCE-FILE instead of in the
     first nonoption argument.  This option may be given multiple times;
     the 'awk' program consists of the concatenation of the contents of
     each specified SOURCE-FILE.

'-v VAR=VAL'
'--assign VAR=VAL'
     Set the variable VAR to the value VAL _before_ execution of the
     program begins.  Such variable values are available inside the
     'BEGIN' rule (*note Other Arguments::).

     The '-v' option can only set one variable, but it can be used more
     than once, setting another variable each time, like this: 'awk
     -v foo=1 -v bar=2 ...'.

          CAUTION: Using '-v' to set the values of the built-in
          variables may lead to surprising results.  'awk' will reset
          the values of those variables as it needs to, possibly
          ignoring any initial value you may have given.

'-W GAWK-OPT'
     Provide an implementation-specific option.  This is the POSIX
     convention for providing implementation-specific options.  These
     options also have corresponding GNU-style long options.  Note that
     the long options may be abbreviated, as long as the abbreviations
     remain unique.  The full list of 'gawk'-specific options is
     provided next.

'--'
     Signal the end of the command-line options.  The following
     arguments are not treated as options even if they begin with '-'.
     This interpretation of '--' follows the POSIX argument parsing
     conventions.

     This is useful if you have file names that start with '-', or in
     shell scripts, if you have file names that will be specified by the
     user that could start with '-'.  It is also useful for passing
     options on to the 'awk' program; see *note Getopt Function::.

   The following list describes 'gawk'-specific options:

'-b'
'--characters-as-bytes'
     Cause 'gawk' to treat all input data as single-byte characters.  In
     addition, all output written with 'print' or 'printf' is treated as
     single-byte characters.

     Normally, 'gawk' follows the POSIX standard and attempts to process
     its input data according to the current locale (*note Locales::).
     This can often involve converting multibyte characters into wide
     characters (internally), and can lead to problems or confusion if
     the input data does not contain valid multibyte characters.  This
     option is an easy way to tell 'gawk', "Hands off my data!"

'-c'
'--traditional'
     Specify "compatibility mode", in which the GNU extensions to the
     'awk' language are disabled, so that 'gawk' behaves just like BWK
     'awk'.  *Note POSIX/GNU::, which summarizes the extensions.  Also
     see *note Compatibility Mode::.

'-C'
'--copyright'
     Print the short version of the General Public License and then
     exit.

'-d'[FILE]
'--dump-variables'['='FILE]
     Print a sorted list of global variables, their types, and final
     values to FILE.  If no FILE is provided, print this list to a file
     named 'awkvars.out' in the current directory.  No space is allowed
     between the '-d' and FILE, if FILE is supplied.

     Having a list of all global variables is a good way to look for
     typographical errors in your programs.  You would also use this
     option if you have a large program with a lot of functions, and you
     want to be sure that your functions don't inadvertently use global
     variables that you meant to be local.  (This is a particularly easy
     mistake to make with simple variable names like 'i', 'j', etc.)

'-D'[FILE]
'--debug'['='FILE]
     Enable debugging of 'awk' programs (*note Debugging::).  By
     default, the debugger reads commands interactively from the
     keyboard (standard input).  The optional FILE argument allows you
     to specify a file with a list of commands for the debugger to
     execute noninteractively.  No space is allowed between the '-D' and
     FILE, if FILE is supplied.

'-e' PROGRAM-TEXT
'--source' PROGRAM-TEXT
     Provide program source code in the PROGRAM-TEXT.  This option
     allows you to mix source code in files with source code that you
     enter on the command line.  This is particularly useful when you
     have library functions that you want to use from your command-line
     programs (*note AWKPATH Variable::).

     Note that 'gawk' treats each string as if it ended with a newline
     character (even if it doesn't).  This makes building the total
     program easier.

          CAUTION: At the moment, there is no requirement that each
          PROGRAM-TEXT be a full syntactic unit.  I.e., the following
          currently works:

               $ gawk -e 'BEGIN { a = 5 ;' -e 'print a }'
               -| 5

          However, this could change in the future, so it's not a good
          idea to rely upon this feature.

'-E' FILE
'--exec' FILE
     Similar to '-f', read 'awk' program text from FILE.  There are two
     differences from '-f':

        * This option terminates option processing; anything else on the
          command line is passed on directly to the 'awk' program.

        * Command-line variable assignments of the form 'VAR=VALUE' are
          disallowed.

     This option is particularly necessary for World Wide Web CGI
     applications that pass arguments through the URL; using this option
     prevents a malicious (or other) user from passing in options,
     assignments, or 'awk' source code (via '-e') to the CGI
     application.(1)  This option should be used with '#!' scripts
     (*note Executable Scripts::), like so:

          #! /usr/local/bin/gawk -E

          AWK PROGRAM HERE ...

'-g'
'--gen-pot'
     Analyze the source program and generate a GNU 'gettext' portable
     object template file on standard output for all string constants
     that have been marked for translation.  *Note
     Internationalization::, for information about this option.

'-h'
'--help'
     Print a "usage" message summarizing the short- and long-style
     options that 'gawk' accepts and then exit.

'-i' SOURCE-FILE
'--include' SOURCE-FILE
     Read an 'awk' source library from SOURCE-FILE.  This option is
     completely equivalent to using the '@include' directive inside your
     program.  It is very similar to the '-f' option, but there are two
     important differences.  First, when '-i' is used, the program
     source is not loaded if it has been previously loaded, whereas with
     '-f', 'gawk' always loads the file.  Second, because this option is
     intended to be used with code libraries, 'gawk' does not recognize
     such files as constituting main program input.  Thus, after
     processing an '-i' argument, 'gawk' still expects to find the main
     source code via the '-f' option or on the command line.

'-l' EXT
'--load' EXT
     Load a dynamic extension named EXT.  Extensions are stored as
     system shared libraries.  This option searches for the library
     using the 'AWKLIBPATH' environment variable.  The correct library
     suffix for your platform will be supplied by default, so it need
     not be specified in the extension name.  The extension
     initialization routine should be named 'dl_load()'.  An alternative
     is to use the '@load' keyword inside the program to load a shared
     library.  This advanced feature is described in detail in *note
     Dynamic Extensions::.

'-L'[VALUE]
'--lint'['='VALUE]
     Warn about constructs that are dubious or nonportable to other
     'awk' implementations.  No space is allowed between the '-L' and
     VALUE, if VALUE is supplied.  Some warnings are issued when 'gawk'
     first reads your program.  Others are issued at runtime, as your
     program executes.  With an optional argument of 'fatal', lint
     warnings become fatal errors.  This may be drastic, but its use
     will certainly encourage the development of cleaner 'awk' programs.
     With an optional argument of 'invalid', only warnings about things
     that are actually invalid are issued.  (This is not fully
     implemented yet.)

     Some warnings are only printed once, even if the dubious constructs
     they warn about occur multiple times in your 'awk' program.  Thus,
     when eliminating problems pointed out by '--lint', you should take
     care to search for all occurrences of each inappropriate construct.
     As 'awk' programs are usually short, doing so is not burdensome.

'-M'
'--bignum'
     Select arbitrary-precision arithmetic on numbers.  This option has
     no effect if 'gawk' is not compiled to use the GNU MPFR and MP
     libraries (*note Arbitrary Precision Arithmetic::).

'-n'
'--non-decimal-data'
     Enable automatic interpretation of octal and hexadecimal values in
     input data (*note Nondecimal Data::).

          CAUTION: This option can severely break old programs.  Use
          with care.  Also note that this option may disappear in a
          future version of 'gawk'.

'-N'
'--use-lc-numeric'
     Force the use of the locale's decimal point character when parsing
     numeric input data (*note Locales::).

'-o'[FILE]
'--pretty-print'['='FILE]
     Enable pretty-printing of 'awk' programs.  Implies '--no-optimize'.
     By default, the output program is created in a file named
     'awkprof.out' (*note Profiling::).  The optional FILE argument
     allows you to specify a different file name for the output.  No
     space is allowed between the '-o' and FILE, if FILE is supplied.

          NOTE: In the past, this option would also execute your
          program.  This is no longer the case.

'-O'
'--optimize'
     Enable 'gawk''s default optimizations on the internal
     representation of the program.  At the moment, this includes simple
     constant folding and tail recursion elimination in function calls.

     These optimizations are enabled by default.  This option remains
     primarily for backwards compatibility.  However, it may be used to
     cancel the effect of an earlier '-s' option (see later in this
     list).

'-p'[FILE]
'--profile'['='FILE]
     Enable profiling of 'awk' programs (*note Profiling::).  Implies
     '--no-optimize'.  By default, profiles are created in a file named
     'awkprof.out'.  The optional FILE argument allows you to specify a
     different file name for the profile file.  No space is allowed
     between the '-p' and FILE, if FILE is supplied.

     The profile contains execution counts for each statement in the
     program in the left margin, and function call counts for each
     function.

'-P'
'--posix'
     Operate in strict POSIX mode.  This disables all 'gawk' extensions
     (just like '--traditional') and disables all extensions not allowed
     by POSIX. *Note Common Extensions:: for a summary of the extensions
     in 'gawk' that are disabled by this option.  Also, the following
     additional restrictions apply:

        * Newlines are not allowed after '?' or ':' (*note Conditional
          Exp::).

        * Specifying '-Ft' on the command line does not set the value of
          'FS' to be a single TAB character (*note Field Separators::).

        * The locale's decimal point character is used for parsing input
          data (*note Locales::).

     If you supply both '--traditional' and '--posix' on the command
     line, '--posix' takes precedence.  'gawk' issues a warning if both
     options are supplied.

'-r'
'--re-interval'
     Allow interval expressions (*note Regexp Operators::) in regexps.
     This is now 'gawk''s default behavior.  Nevertheless, this option
     remains (both for backward compatibility and for use in combination
     with '--traditional').

'-s'
'--no-optimize'
     Disable 'gawk''s default optimizations on the internal
     representation of the program.

'-S'
'--sandbox'
     Disable the 'system()' function, input redirections with 'getline',
     output redirections with 'print' and 'printf', and dynamic
     extensions.  This is particularly useful when you want to run 'awk'
     scripts from questionable sources and need to make sure the scripts
     can't access your system (other than the specified input data
     file).

'-t'
'--lint-old'
     Warn about constructs that are not available in the original
     version of 'awk' from Version 7 Unix (*note V7/SVR3.1::).

'-V'
'--version'
     Print version information for this particular copy of 'gawk'.  This
     allows you to determine if your copy of 'gawk' is up to date with
     respect to whatever the Free Software Foundation is currently
     distributing.  It is also useful for bug reports (*note Bugs::).

   As long as program text has been supplied, any other options are
flagged as invalid with a warning message but are otherwise ignored.

   In compatibility mode, as a special case, if the value of FS supplied
to the '-F' option is 't', then 'FS' is set to the TAB character
('"\t"').  This is true only for '--traditional' and not for '--posix'
(*note Field Separators::).

   The '-f' option may be used more than once on the command line.  If
it is, 'awk' reads its program source from all of the named files, as if
they had been concatenated together into one big file.  This is useful
for creating libraries of 'awk' functions.  These functions can be
written once and then retrieved from a standard place, instead of having
to be included in each individual program.  The '-i' option is similar
in this regard.  (As mentioned in *note Definition Syntax::, function
names must be unique.)

   With standard 'awk', library functions can still be used, even if the
program is entered at the keyboard, by specifying '-f /dev/tty'.  After
typing your program, type 'Ctrl-d' (the end-of-file character) to
terminate it.  (You may also use '-f -' to read program source from the
standard input, but then you will not be able to also use the standard
input as a source of data.)

   Because it is clumsy using the standard 'awk' mechanisms to mix
source file and command-line 'awk' programs, 'gawk' provides the '-e'
option.  This does not require you to preempt the standard input for
your source code; it allows you to easily mix command-line and library
source code (*note AWKPATH Variable::).  As with '-f', the '-e' and '-i'
options may also be used multiple times on the command line.

   If no '-f' or '-e' option is specified, then 'gawk' uses the first
nonoption command-line argument as the text of the program source code.

   If the environment variable 'POSIXLY_CORRECT' exists, then 'gawk'
behaves in strict POSIX mode, exactly as if you had supplied '--posix'.
Many GNU programs look for this environment variable to suppress
extensions that conflict with POSIX, but 'gawk' behaves differently: it
suppresses all extensions, even those that do not conflict with POSIX,
and behaves in strict POSIX mode.  If '--lint' is supplied on the
command line and 'gawk' turns on POSIX mode because of
'POSIXLY_CORRECT', then it issues a warning message indicating that
POSIX mode is in effect.  You would typically set this variable in your
shell's startup file.  For a Bourne-compatible shell (such as Bash), you
would add these lines to the '.profile' file in your home directory:

     POSIXLY_CORRECT=true
     export POSIXLY_CORRECT

   For a C shell-compatible shell,(2) you would add this line to the
'.login' file in your home directory:

     setenv POSIXLY_CORRECT true

   Having 'POSIXLY_CORRECT' set is not recommended for daily use, but it
is good for testing the portability of your programs to other
environments.

   ---------- Footnotes ----------

   (1) For more detail, please see Section 4.4 of RFC 3875
(http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3875).  Also see the explanatory note sent
to the 'gawk' bug mailing list
(https://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/bug-gawk/2014-11/msg00022.html).

   (2) Not recommended.

File: gawk.info,  Node: Other Arguments,  Next: Naming Standard Input,  Prev: Options,  Up: Invoking Gawk

