WARNING::BUILDID(7stap)                                                                       WARNING::BUILDID(7stap)

NAME
       warning::buildid - build-id verification failures

DESCRIPTION
       Because systemtap's script translation / execution stages may be executed at different times and places, it is
       sometimes necessary to verify certain invariants.  One such invariant is that if  a  script  was  informed  by
       translate-time  analysis of executables, then those same executables need to be used at run time.  This check-
       ing is done based upon the build-id, a binary hash that modern  (post-2007)  compilers/toolchains  add  as  an
       NT_GNU_BUILD_ID ELF note to object files and executables.  Use the readelf -n command to examine the build-ids
       of binaries, if you are interested.

       Only scripts are sensitive to executables' build-ids: generally those that perform deep analysis of the  bina-
       ries  or  their debuginfo.  For example, scripts that place .function or .statement probes, or use stack back-
       trace-related tapset functions may be sensitive.  Other scripts that rely only on process.mark or kernel.trace
       probes do not require debuginfo.  See the DWARF DEBUGINFO section in the stapprobes(3stap) man page.

       During  translation,  systemtap saves a copy of the relevant files' build-ids within the compiled modules.  At
       run-time, the modules compare the saved ones to the actual run-time build-ids in memory.  The warning  message
       indicates that they did not match, so the module will decline placing a probe that was computed based upon ob-
       solete data.  This is important for safety, as placing them at an inappropriate address could crash  the  pro-
       grams.  However, this is not necessarily a fatal error, since probes unrelated to the mismatching binaries may
       operate.

       A build-id mismatch could be caused by a few different situations.  The main one is where the executable  ver-
       sions  or architecture were different between the systemtap translation and execution times/places.  For exam-
       ple, one may run a stap-server on a slightly different version of the OS distribution.  Someone may  have  re-
       built  a  new kernel image, but preserved the previous version numbers.  The kernel running on the workstation
       may be slightly different from the version being targeted - perhaps due to a pending  kernel  upgrade  leaving
       different  files  on disk versus running in memory.  If your OS distribution uses separate debuginfo packages,
       the split .debug files may not exactly match the main binaries.

       To disable build-id verification warnings, if one is confident that they are an artefact  of  build  accidents
       rather than a real mismatch, one might try the -DSTP_NO_BUILDID_CHECK option.

SEE ALSO
       http://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Releases/FeatureBuildId,
       stap(1),
       stapprobes(3stap),
       warning::debuginfo(7stap),
       error::reporting(7stap)

                                                                                              WARNING::BUILDID(7stap)
