3.9 Options for Debugging Your Program
======================================

To tell GCC to emit extra information for use by a debugger, in almost
all cases you need only to add '-g' to your other options.

 GCC allows you to use '-g' with '-O'.  The shortcuts taken by optimized
code may occasionally be surprising: some variables you declared may not
exist at all; flow of control may briefly move where you did not expect
it; some statements may not be executed because they compute constant
results or their values are already at hand; some statements may execute
in different places because they have been moved out of loops.
Nevertheless it is possible to debug optimized output.  This makes it
reasonable to use the optimizer for programs that might have bugs.

 If you are not using some other optimization option, consider using
'-Og' (*note Optimize Options::) with '-g'.  With no '-O' option at all,
some compiler passes that collect information useful for debugging do
not run at all, so that '-Og' may result in a better debugging
experience.

'-g'
     Produce debugging information in the operating system's native
     format (stabs, COFF, XCOFF, or DWARF).  GDB can work with this
     debugging information.

     On most systems that use stabs format, '-g' enables use of extra
     debugging information that only GDB can use; this extra information
     makes debugging work better in GDB but probably makes other
     debuggers crash or refuse to read the program.  If you want to
     control for certain whether to generate the extra information, use
     '-gstabs+', '-gstabs', '-gxcoff+', '-gxcoff', or '-gvms' (see
     below).

'-ggdb'
     Produce debugging information for use by GDB.  This means to use
     the most expressive format available (DWARF, stabs, or the native
     format if neither of those are supported), including GDB extensions
     if at all possible.

'-gdwarf'
'-gdwarf-VERSION'
     Produce debugging information in DWARF format (if that is
     supported).  The value of VERSION may be either 2, 3, 4 or 5; the
     default version for most targets is 4.  DWARF Version 5 is only
     experimental.

     Note that with DWARF Version 2, some ports require and always use
     some non-conflicting DWARF 3 extensions in the unwind tables.

     Version 4 may require GDB 7.0 and '-fvar-tracking-assignments' for
     maximum benefit.

     GCC no longer supports DWARF Version 1, which is substantially
     different than Version 2 and later.  For historical reasons, some
     other DWARF-related options such as '-fno-dwarf2-cfi-asm') retain a
     reference to DWARF Version 2 in their names, but apply to all
     currently-supported versions of DWARF.

'-gstabs'
     Produce debugging information in stabs format (if that is
     supported), without GDB extensions.  This is the format used by DBX
     on most BSD systems.  On MIPS, Alpha and System V Release 4 systems
     this option produces stabs debugging output that is not understood
     by DBX.  On System V Release 4 systems this option requires the GNU
     assembler.

'-gstabs+'
     Produce debugging information in stabs format (if that is
     supported), using GNU extensions understood only by the GNU
     debugger (GDB).  The use of these extensions is likely to make
     other debuggers crash or refuse to read the program.

'-gxcoff'
     Produce debugging information in XCOFF format (if that is
     supported).  This is the format used by the DBX debugger on IBM
     RS/6000 systems.

'-gxcoff+'
     Produce debugging information in XCOFF format (if that is
     supported), using GNU extensions understood only by the GNU
     debugger (GDB).  The use of these extensions is likely to make
     other debuggers crash or refuse to read the program, and may cause
     assemblers other than the GNU assembler (GAS) to fail with an
     error.

'-gvms'
     Produce debugging information in Alpha/VMS debug format (if that is
     supported).  This is the format used by DEBUG on Alpha/VMS systems.

'-gLEVEL'
'-ggdbLEVEL'
'-gstabsLEVEL'
'-gxcoffLEVEL'
'-gvmsLEVEL'
     Request debugging information and also use LEVEL to specify how
     much information.  The default level is 2.

     Level 0 produces no debug information at all.  Thus, '-g0' negates
     '-g'.

     Level 1 produces minimal information, enough for making backtraces
     in parts of the program that you don't plan to debug.  This
     includes descriptions of functions and external variables, and line
     number tables, but no information about local variables.

     Level 3 includes extra information, such as all the macro
     definitions present in the program.  Some debuggers support macro
     expansion when you use '-g3'.

     '-gdwarf' does not accept a concatenated debug level, to avoid
     confusion with '-gdwarf-LEVEL'.  Instead use an additional
     '-gLEVEL' option to change the debug level for DWARF.

'-feliminate-unused-debug-symbols'
     Produce debugging information in stabs format (if that is
     supported), for only symbols that are actually used.

'-femit-class-debug-always'
     Instead of emitting debugging information for a C++ class in only
     one object file, emit it in all object files using the class.  This
     option should be used only with debuggers that are unable to handle
     the way GCC normally emits debugging information for classes
     because using this option increases the size of debugging
     information by as much as a factor of two.

'-fno-merge-debug-strings'
     Direct the linker to not merge together strings in the debugging
     information that are identical in different object files.  Merging
     is not supported by all assemblers or linkers.  Merging decreases
     the size of the debug information in the output file at the cost of
     increasing link processing time.  Merging is enabled by default.

'-fdebug-prefix-map=OLD=NEW'
     When compiling files residing in directory 'OLD', record debugging
     information describing them as if the files resided in directory
     'NEW' instead.  This can be used to replace a build-time path with
     an install-time path in the debug info.  It can also be used to
     change an absolute path to a relative path by using '.' for NEW.
     This can give more reproducible builds, which are location
     independent, but may require an extra command to tell GDB where to
     find the source files.  See also '-ffile-prefix-map'.

'-fvar-tracking'
     Run variable tracking pass.  It computes where variables are stored
     at each position in code.  Better debugging information is then
     generated (if the debugging information format supports this
     information).

     It is enabled by default when compiling with optimization ('-Os',
     '-O', '-O2', ...), debugging information ('-g') and the debug info
     format supports it.

'-fvar-tracking-assignments'
     Annotate assignments to user variables early in the compilation and
     attempt to carry the annotations over throughout the compilation
     all the way to the end, in an attempt to improve debug information
     while optimizing.  Use of '-gdwarf-4' is recommended along with it.

     It can be enabled even if var-tracking is disabled, in which case
     annotations are created and maintained, but discarded at the end.
     By default, this flag is enabled together with '-fvar-tracking',
     except when selective scheduling is enabled.

'-gsplit-dwarf'
     Separate as much DWARF debugging information as possible into a
     separate output file with the extension '.dwo'.  This option allows
     the build system to avoid linking files with debug information.  To
     be useful, this option requires a debugger capable of reading
     '.dwo' files.

'-gdescribe-dies'
     Add description attributes to some DWARF DIEs that have no name
     attribute, such as artificial variables, external references and
     call site parameter DIEs.

'-gpubnames'
     Generate DWARF '.debug_pubnames' and '.debug_pubtypes' sections.

'-ggnu-pubnames'
     Generate '.debug_pubnames' and '.debug_pubtypes' sections in a
     format suitable for conversion into a GDB index.  This option is
     only useful with a linker that can produce GDB index version 7.

'-fdebug-types-section'
     When using DWARF Version 4 or higher, type DIEs can be put into
     their own '.debug_types' section instead of making them part of the
     '.debug_info' section.  It is more efficient to put them in a
     separate comdat section since the linker can then remove
     duplicates.  But not all DWARF consumers support '.debug_types'
     sections yet and on some objects '.debug_types' produces larger
     instead of smaller debugging information.

'-grecord-gcc-switches'
'-gno-record-gcc-switches'
     This switch causes the command-line options used to invoke the
     compiler that may affect code generation to be appended to the
     DW_AT_producer attribute in DWARF debugging information.  The
     options are concatenated with spaces separating them from each
     other and from the compiler version.  It is enabled by default.
     See also '-frecord-gcc-switches' for another way of storing
     compiler options into the object file.

'-gstrict-dwarf'
     Disallow using extensions of later DWARF standard version than
     selected with '-gdwarf-VERSION'.  On most targets using
     non-conflicting DWARF extensions from later standard versions is
     allowed.

'-gno-strict-dwarf'
     Allow using extensions of later DWARF standard version than
     selected with '-gdwarf-VERSION'.

'-gas-loc-support'
     Inform the compiler that the assembler supports '.loc' directives.
     It may then use them for the assembler to generate DWARF2+ line
     number tables.

     This is generally desirable, because assembler-generated
     line-number tables are a lot more compact than those the compiler
     can generate itself.

     This option will be enabled by default if, at GCC configure time,
     the assembler was found to support such directives.

'-gno-as-loc-support'
     Force GCC to generate DWARF2+ line number tables internally, if
     DWARF2+ line number tables are to be generated.

'gas-locview-support'
     Inform the compiler that the assembler supports 'view' assignment
     and reset assertion checking in '.loc' directives.

     This option will be enabled by default if, at GCC configure time,
     the assembler was found to support them.

'gno-as-locview-support'
     Force GCC to assign view numbers internally, if
     '-gvariable-location-views' are explicitly requested.

'-gcolumn-info'
'-gno-column-info'
     Emit location column information into DWARF debugging information,
     rather than just file and line.  This option is enabled by default.

'-gstatement-frontiers'
'-gno-statement-frontiers'
     This option causes GCC to create markers in the internal
     representation at the beginning of statements, and to keep them
     roughly in place throughout compilation, using them to guide the
     output of 'is_stmt' markers in the line number table.  This is
     enabled by default when compiling with optimization ('-Os', '-O',
     '-O2', ...), and outputting DWARF 2 debug information at the normal
     level.

'-gvariable-location-views'
'-gvariable-location-views=incompat5'
'-gno-variable-location-views'
     Augment variable location lists with progressive view numbers
     implied from the line number table.  This enables debug information
     consumers to inspect state at certain points of the program, even
     if no instructions associated with the corresponding source
     locations are present at that point.  If the assembler lacks
     support for view numbers in line number tables, this will cause the
     compiler to emit the line number table, which generally makes them
     somewhat less compact.  The augmented line number tables and
     location lists are fully backward-compatible, so they can be
     consumed by debug information consumers that are not aware of these
     augmentations, but they won't derive any benefit from them either.

     This is enabled by default when outputting DWARF 2 debug
     information at the normal level, as long as there is assembler
     support, '-fvar-tracking-assignments' is enabled and
     '-gstrict-dwarf' is not.  When assembler support is not available,
     this may still be enabled, but it will force GCC to output internal
     line number tables, and if '-ginternal-reset-location-views' is not
     enabled, that will most certainly lead to silently mismatching
     location views.

     There is a proposed representation for view numbers that is not
     backward compatible with the location list format introduced in
     DWARF 5, that can be enabled with
     '-gvariable-location-views=incompat5'.  This option may be removed
     in the future, is only provided as a reference implementation of
     the proposed representation.  Debug information consumers are not
     expected to support this extended format, and they would be
     rendered unable to decode location lists using it.

'-ginternal-reset-location-views'
'-gnointernal-reset-location-views'
     Attempt to determine location views that can be omitted from
     location view lists.  This requires the compiler to have very
     accurate insn length estimates, which isn't always the case, and it
     may cause incorrect view lists to be generated silently when using
     an assembler that does not support location view lists.  The GNU
     assembler will flag any such error as a 'view number mismatch'.
     This is only enabled on ports that define a reliable estimation
     function.

'-ginline-points'
'-gno-inline-points'
     Generate extended debug information for inlined functions.
     Location view tracking markers are inserted at inlined entry
     points, so that address and view numbers can be computed and output
     in debug information.  This can be enabled independently of
     location views, in which case the view numbers won't be output, but
     it can only be enabled along with statement frontiers, and it is
     only enabled by default if location views are enabled.

'-gz[=TYPE]'
     Produce compressed debug sections in DWARF format, if that is
     supported.  If TYPE is not given, the default type depends on the
     capabilities of the assembler and linker used.  TYPE may be one of
     'none' (don't compress debug sections), 'zlib' (use zlib
     compression in ELF gABI format), or 'zlib-gnu' (use zlib
     compression in traditional GNU format).  If the linker doesn't
     support writing compressed debug sections, the option is rejected.
     Otherwise, if the assembler does not support them, '-gz' is
     silently ignored when producing object files.

'-femit-struct-debug-baseonly'
     Emit debug information for struct-like types only when the base
     name of the compilation source file matches the base name of file
     in which the struct is defined.

     This option substantially reduces the size of debugging
     information, but at significant potential loss in type information
     to the debugger.  See '-femit-struct-debug-reduced' for a less
     aggressive option.  See '-femit-struct-debug-detailed' for more
     detailed control.

     This option works only with DWARF debug output.

'-femit-struct-debug-reduced'
     Emit debug information for struct-like types only when the base
     name of the compilation source file matches the base name of file
     in which the type is defined, unless the struct is a template or
     defined in a system header.

     This option significantly reduces the size of debugging
     information, with some potential loss in type information to the
     debugger.  See '-femit-struct-debug-baseonly' for a more aggressive
     option.  See '-femit-struct-debug-detailed' for more detailed
     control.

     This option works only with DWARF debug output.

'-femit-struct-debug-detailed[=SPEC-LIST]'
     Specify the struct-like types for which the compiler generates
     debug information.  The intent is to reduce duplicate struct debug
     information between different object files within the same program.

     This option is a detailed version of '-femit-struct-debug-reduced'
     and '-femit-struct-debug-baseonly', which serves for most needs.

     A specification has the syntax
     ['dir:'|'ind:']['ord:'|'gen:']('any'|'sys'|'base'|'none')

     The optional first word limits the specification to structs that
     are used directly ('dir:') or used indirectly ('ind:').  A struct
     type is used directly when it is the type of a variable, member.
     Indirect uses arise through pointers to structs.  That is, when use
     of an incomplete struct is valid, the use is indirect.  An example
     is 'struct one direct; struct two * indirect;'.

     The optional second word limits the specification to ordinary
     structs ('ord:') or generic structs ('gen:').  Generic structs are
     a bit complicated to explain.  For C++, these are non-explicit
     specializations of template classes, or non-template classes within
     the above.  Other programming languages have generics, but
     '-femit-struct-debug-detailed' does not yet implement them.

     The third word specifies the source files for those structs for
     which the compiler should emit debug information.  The values
     'none' and 'any' have the normal meaning.  The value 'base' means
     that the base of name of the file in which the type declaration
     appears must match the base of the name of the main compilation
     file.  In practice, this means that when compiling 'foo.c', debug
     information is generated for types declared in that file and
     'foo.h', but not other header files.  The value 'sys' means those
     types satisfying 'base' or declared in system or compiler headers.

     You may need to experiment to determine the best settings for your
     application.

     The default is '-femit-struct-debug-detailed=all'.

     This option works only with DWARF debug output.

'-fno-dwarf2-cfi-asm'
     Emit DWARF unwind info as compiler generated '.eh_frame' section
     instead of using GAS '.cfi_*' directives.

'-fno-eliminate-unused-debug-types'
     Normally, when producing DWARF output, GCC avoids producing debug
     symbol output for types that are nowhere used in the source file
     being compiled.  Sometimes it is useful to have GCC emit debugging
     information for all types declared in a compilation unit,
     regardless of whether or not they are actually used in that
     compilation unit, for example if, in the debugger, you want to cast
     a value to a type that is not actually used in your program (but is
     declared).  More often, however, this results in a significant
     amount of wasted space.

File: gcc.info,  Node: Optimize Options,  Next: Instrumentation Options,  Prev: Debugging Options,  Up: Invoking GCC

