3.12 Options Controlling the Preprocessor
=========================================

These options control the C preprocessor, which is run on each C source
file before actual compilation.

 If you use the '-E' option, nothing is done except preprocessing.  Some
of these options make sense only together with '-E' because they cause
the preprocessor output to be unsuitable for actual compilation.

 In addition to the options listed here, there are a number of options
to control search paths for include files documented in *note Directory
Options::.  Options to control preprocessor diagnostics are listed in
*note Warning Options::.

'-D NAME'
     Predefine NAME as a macro, with definition '1'.

'-D NAME=DEFINITION'
     The contents of DEFINITION are tokenized and processed as if they
     appeared during translation phase three in a '#define' directive.
     In particular, the definition is truncated by embedded newline
     characters.

     If you are invoking the preprocessor from a shell or shell-like
     program you may need to use the shell's quoting syntax to protect
     characters such as spaces that have a meaning in the shell syntax.

     If you wish to define a function-like macro on the command line,
     write its argument list with surrounding parentheses before the
     equals sign (if any).  Parentheses are meaningful to most shells,
     so you should quote the option.  With 'sh' and 'csh',
     '-D'NAME(ARGS...)=DEFINITION'' works.

     '-D' and '-U' options are processed in the order they are given on
     the command line.  All '-imacros FILE' and '-include FILE' options
     are processed after all '-D' and '-U' options.

'-U NAME'
     Cancel any previous definition of NAME, either built in or provided
     with a '-D' option.

'-include FILE'
     Process FILE as if '#include "file"' appeared as the first line of
     the primary source file.  However, the first directory searched for
     FILE is the preprocessor's working directory _instead of_ the
     directory containing the main source file.  If not found there, it
     is searched for in the remainder of the '#include "..."' search
     chain as normal.

     If multiple '-include' options are given, the files are included in
     the order they appear on the command line.

'-imacros FILE'
     Exactly like '-include', except that any output produced by
     scanning FILE is thrown away.  Macros it defines remain defined.
     This allows you to acquire all the macros from a header without
     also processing its declarations.

     All files specified by '-imacros' are processed before all files
     specified by '-include'.

'-undef'
     Do not predefine any system-specific or GCC-specific macros.  The
     standard predefined macros remain defined.

'-pthread'
     Define additional macros required for using the POSIX threads
     library.  You should use this option consistently for both
     compilation and linking.  This option is supported on GNU/Linux
     targets, most other Unix derivatives, and also on x86 Cygwin and
     MinGW targets.

'-M'
     Instead of outputting the result of preprocessing, output a rule
     suitable for 'make' describing the dependencies of the main source
     file.  The preprocessor outputs one 'make' rule containing the
     object file name for that source file, a colon, and the names of
     all the included files, including those coming from '-include' or
     '-imacros' command-line options.

     Unless specified explicitly (with '-MT' or '-MQ'), the object file
     name consists of the name of the source file with any suffix
     replaced with object file suffix and with any leading directory
     parts removed.  If there are many included files then the rule is
     split into several lines using '\'-newline.  The rule has no
     commands.

     This option does not suppress the preprocessor's debug output, such
     as '-dM'.  To avoid mixing such debug output with the dependency
     rules you should explicitly specify the dependency output file with
     '-MF', or use an environment variable like 'DEPENDENCIES_OUTPUT'
     (*note Environment Variables::).  Debug output is still sent to the
     regular output stream as normal.

     Passing '-M' to the driver implies '-E', and suppresses warnings
     with an implicit '-w'.

'-MM'
     Like '-M' but do not mention header files that are found in system
     header directories, nor header files that are included, directly or
     indirectly, from such a header.

     This implies that the choice of angle brackets or double quotes in
     an '#include' directive does not in itself determine whether that
     header appears in '-MM' dependency output.

'-MF FILE'
     When used with '-M' or '-MM', specifies a file to write the
     dependencies to.  If no '-MF' switch is given the preprocessor
     sends the rules to the same place it would send preprocessed
     output.

     When used with the driver options '-MD' or '-MMD', '-MF' overrides
     the default dependency output file.

     If FILE is '-', then the dependencies are written to 'stdout'.

'-MG'
     In conjunction with an option such as '-M' requesting dependency
     generation, '-MG' assumes missing header files are generated files
     and adds them to the dependency list without raising an error.  The
     dependency filename is taken directly from the '#include' directive
     without prepending any path.  '-MG' also suppresses preprocessed
     output, as a missing header file renders this useless.

     This feature is used in automatic updating of makefiles.

'-MP'
     This option instructs CPP to add a phony target for each dependency
     other than the main file, causing each to depend on nothing.  These
     dummy rules work around errors 'make' gives if you remove header
     files without updating the 'Makefile' to match.

     This is typical output:

          test.o: test.c test.h

          test.h:

'-MT TARGET'

     Change the target of the rule emitted by dependency generation.  By
     default CPP takes the name of the main input file, deletes any
     directory components and any file suffix such as '.c', and appends
     the platform's usual object suffix.  The result is the target.

     An '-MT' option sets the target to be exactly the string you
     specify.  If you want multiple targets, you can specify them as a
     single argument to '-MT', or use multiple '-MT' options.

     For example, '-MT '$(objpfx)foo.o'' might give

          $(objpfx)foo.o: foo.c

'-MQ TARGET'

     Same as '-MT', but it quotes any characters which are special to
     Make.  '-MQ '$(objpfx)foo.o'' gives

          $$(objpfx)foo.o: foo.c

     The default target is automatically quoted, as if it were given
     with '-MQ'.

'-MD'
     '-MD' is equivalent to '-M -MF FILE', except that '-E' is not
     implied.  The driver determines FILE based on whether an '-o'
     option is given.  If it is, the driver uses its argument but with a
     suffix of '.d', otherwise it takes the name of the input file,
     removes any directory components and suffix, and applies a '.d'
     suffix.

     If '-MD' is used in conjunction with '-E', any '-o' switch is
     understood to specify the dependency output file (*note -MF:
     dashMF.), but if used without '-E', each '-o' is understood to
     specify a target object file.

     Since '-E' is not implied, '-MD' can be used to generate a
     dependency output file as a side effect of the compilation process.

'-MMD'
     Like '-MD' except mention only user header files, not system header
     files.

'-fpreprocessed'
     Indicate to the preprocessor that the input file has already been
     preprocessed.  This suppresses things like macro expansion,
     trigraph conversion, escaped newline splicing, and processing of
     most directives.  The preprocessor still recognizes and removes
     comments, so that you can pass a file preprocessed with '-C' to the
     compiler without problems.  In this mode the integrated
     preprocessor is little more than a tokenizer for the front ends.

     '-fpreprocessed' is implicit if the input file has one of the
     extensions '.i', '.ii' or '.mi'.  These are the extensions that GCC
     uses for preprocessed files created by '-save-temps'.

'-fdirectives-only'
     When preprocessing, handle directives, but do not expand macros.

     The option's behavior depends on the '-E' and '-fpreprocessed'
     options.

     With '-E', preprocessing is limited to the handling of directives
     such as '#define', '#ifdef', and '#error'.  Other preprocessor
     operations, such as macro expansion and trigraph conversion are not
     performed.  In addition, the '-dD' option is implicitly enabled.

     With '-fpreprocessed', predefinition of command line and most
     builtin macros is disabled.  Macros such as '__LINE__', which are
     contextually dependent, are handled normally.  This enables
     compilation of files previously preprocessed with '-E
     -fdirectives-only'.

     With both '-E' and '-fpreprocessed', the rules for '-fpreprocessed'
     take precedence.  This enables full preprocessing of files
     previously preprocessed with '-E -fdirectives-only'.

'-fdollars-in-identifiers'
     Accept '$' in identifiers.

'-fextended-identifiers'
     Accept universal character names in identifiers.  This option is
     enabled by default for C99 (and later C standard versions) and C++.

'-fno-canonical-system-headers'
     When preprocessing, do not shorten system header paths with
     canonicalization.

'-ftabstop=WIDTH'
     Set the distance between tab stops.  This helps the preprocessor
     report correct column numbers in warnings or errors, even if tabs
     appear on the line.  If the value is less than 1 or greater than
     100, the option is ignored.  The default is 8.

'-ftrack-macro-expansion[=LEVEL]'
     Track locations of tokens across macro expansions.  This allows the
     compiler to emit diagnostic about the current macro expansion stack
     when a compilation error occurs in a macro expansion.  Using this
     option makes the preprocessor and the compiler consume more memory.
     The LEVEL parameter can be used to choose the level of precision of
     token location tracking thus decreasing the memory consumption if
     necessary.  Value '0' of LEVEL de-activates this option.  Value '1'
     tracks tokens locations in a degraded mode for the sake of minimal
     memory overhead.  In this mode all tokens resulting from the
     expansion of an argument of a function-like macro have the same
     location.  Value '2' tracks tokens locations completely.  This
     value is the most memory hungry.  When this option is given no
     argument, the default parameter value is '2'.

     Note that '-ftrack-macro-expansion=2' is activated by default.

'-fmacro-prefix-map=OLD=NEW'
     When preprocessing files residing in directory 'OLD', expand the
     '__FILE__' and '__BASE_FILE__' macros as if the files resided in
     directory 'NEW' instead.  This can be used to change an absolute
     path to a relative path by using '.' for NEW which can result in
     more reproducible builds that are location independent.  This
     option also affects '__builtin_FILE()' during compilation.  See
     also '-ffile-prefix-map'.

'-fexec-charset=CHARSET'
     Set the execution character set, used for string and character
     constants.  The default is UTF-8.  CHARSET can be any encoding
     supported by the system's 'iconv' library routine.

'-fwide-exec-charset=CHARSET'
     Set the wide execution character set, used for wide string and
     character constants.  The default is UTF-32 or UTF-16, whichever
     corresponds to the width of 'wchar_t'.  As with '-fexec-charset',
     CHARSET can be any encoding supported by the system's 'iconv'
     library routine; however, you will have problems with encodings
     that do not fit exactly in 'wchar_t'.

'-finput-charset=CHARSET'
     Set the input character set, used for translation from the
     character set of the input file to the source character set used by
     GCC.  If the locale does not specify, or GCC cannot get this
     information from the locale, the default is UTF-8.  This can be
     overridden by either the locale or this command-line option.
     Currently the command-line option takes precedence if there's a
     conflict.  CHARSET can be any encoding supported by the system's
     'iconv' library routine.

'-fpch-deps'
     When using precompiled headers (*note Precompiled Headers::), this
     flag causes the dependency-output flags to also list the files from
     the precompiled header's dependencies.  If not specified, only the
     precompiled header are listed and not the files that were used to
     create it, because those files are not consulted when a precompiled
     header is used.

'-fpch-preprocess'
     This option allows use of a precompiled header (*note Precompiled
     Headers::) together with '-E'.  It inserts a special '#pragma',
     '#pragma GCC pch_preprocess "FILENAME"' in the output to mark the
     place where the precompiled header was found, and its FILENAME.
     When '-fpreprocessed' is in use, GCC recognizes this '#pragma' and
     loads the PCH.

     This option is off by default, because the resulting preprocessed
     output is only really suitable as input to GCC.  It is switched on
     by '-save-temps'.

     You should not write this '#pragma' in your own code, but it is
     safe to edit the filename if the PCH file is available in a
     different location.  The filename may be absolute or it may be
     relative to GCC's current directory.

'-fworking-directory'
     Enable generation of linemarkers in the preprocessor output that
     let the compiler know the current working directory at the time of
     preprocessing.  When this option is enabled, the preprocessor
     emits, after the initial linemarker, a second linemarker with the
     current working directory followed by two slashes.  GCC uses this
     directory, when it's present in the preprocessed input, as the
     directory emitted as the current working directory in some
     debugging information formats.  This option is implicitly enabled
     if debugging information is enabled, but this can be inhibited with
     the negated form '-fno-working-directory'.  If the '-P' flag is
     present in the command line, this option has no effect, since no
     '#line' directives are emitted whatsoever.

'-A PREDICATE=ANSWER'
     Make an assertion with the predicate PREDICATE and answer ANSWER.
     This form is preferred to the older form '-A PREDICATE(ANSWER)',
     which is still supported, because it does not use shell special
     characters.

'-A -PREDICATE=ANSWER'
     Cancel an assertion with the predicate PREDICATE and answer ANSWER.

'-C'
     Do not discard comments.  All comments are passed through to the
     output file, except for comments in processed directives, which are
     deleted along with the directive.

     You should be prepared for side effects when using '-C'; it causes
     the preprocessor to treat comments as tokens in their own right.
     For example, comments appearing at the start of what would be a
     directive line have the effect of turning that line into an
     ordinary source line, since the first token on the line is no
     longer a '#'.

'-CC'
     Do not discard comments, including during macro expansion.  This is
     like '-C', except that comments contained within macros are also
     passed through to the output file where the macro is expanded.

     In addition to the side effects of the '-C' option, the '-CC'
     option causes all C++-style comments inside a macro to be converted
     to C-style comments.  This is to prevent later use of that macro
     from inadvertently commenting out the remainder of the source line.

     The '-CC' option is generally used to support lint comments.

'-P'
     Inhibit generation of linemarkers in the output from the
     preprocessor.  This might be useful when running the preprocessor
     on something that is not C code, and will be sent to a program
     which might be confused by the linemarkers.

'-traditional'
'-traditional-cpp'

     Try to imitate the behavior of pre-standard C preprocessors, as
     opposed to ISO C preprocessors.  See the GNU CPP manual for
     details.

     Note that GCC does not otherwise attempt to emulate a pre-standard
     C compiler, and these options are only supported with the '-E'
     switch, or when invoking CPP explicitly.

'-trigraphs'
     Support ISO C trigraphs.  These are three-character sequences, all
     starting with '??', that are defined by ISO C to stand for single
     characters.  For example, '??/' stands for '\', so ''??/n'' is a
     character constant for a newline.

     The nine trigraphs and their replacements are

          Trigraph:       ??(  ??)  ??<  ??>  ??=  ??/  ??'  ??!  ??-
          Replacement:      [    ]    {    }    #    \    ^    |    ~

     By default, GCC ignores trigraphs, but in standard-conforming modes
     it converts them.  See the '-std' and '-ansi' options.

'-remap'
     Enable special code to work around file systems which only permit
     very short file names, such as MS-DOS.

'-H'
     Print the name of each header file used, in addition to other
     normal activities.  Each name is indented to show how deep in the
     '#include' stack it is.  Precompiled header files are also printed,
     even if they are found to be invalid; an invalid precompiled header
     file is printed with '...x' and a valid one with '...!' .

'-dLETTERS'
     Says to make debugging dumps during compilation as specified by
     LETTERS.  The flags documented here are those relevant to the
     preprocessor.  Other LETTERS are interpreted by the compiler
     proper, or reserved for future versions of GCC, and so are silently
     ignored.  If you specify LETTERS whose behavior conflicts, the
     result is undefined.  *Note Developer Options::, for more
     information.

     '-dM'
          Instead of the normal output, generate a list of '#define'
          directives for all the macros defined during the execution of
          the preprocessor, including predefined macros.  This gives you
          a way of finding out what is predefined in your version of the
          preprocessor.  Assuming you have no file 'foo.h', the command

               touch foo.h; cpp -dM foo.h

          shows all the predefined macros.

          If you use '-dM' without the '-E' option, '-dM' is interpreted
          as a synonym for '-fdump-rtl-mach'.  *Note (gcc)Developer
          Options::.

     '-dD'
          Like '-dM' except in two respects: it does _not_ include the
          predefined macros, and it outputs _both_ the '#define'
          directives and the result of preprocessing.  Both kinds of
          output go to the standard output file.

     '-dN'
          Like '-dD', but emit only the macro names, not their
          expansions.

     '-dI'
          Output '#include' directives in addition to the result of
          preprocessing.

     '-dU'
          Like '-dD' except that only macros that are expanded, or whose
          definedness is tested in preprocessor directives, are output;
          the output is delayed until the use or test of the macro; and
          '#undef' directives are also output for macros tested but
          undefined at the time.

'-fdebug-cpp'
     This option is only useful for debugging GCC. When used from CPP or
     with '-E', it dumps debugging information about location maps.
     Every token in the output is preceded by the dump of the map its
     location belongs to.

     When used from GCC without '-E', this option has no effect.

'-Wp,OPTION'
     You can use '-Wp,OPTION' to bypass the compiler driver and pass
     OPTION directly through to the preprocessor.  If OPTION contains
     commas, it is split into multiple options at the commas.  However,
     many options are modified, translated or interpreted by the
     compiler driver before being passed to the preprocessor, and '-Wp'
     forcibly bypasses this phase.  The preprocessor's direct interface
     is undocumented and subject to change, so whenever possible you
     should avoid using '-Wp' and let the driver handle the options
     instead.

'-Xpreprocessor OPTION'
     Pass OPTION as an option to the preprocessor.  You can use this to
     supply system-specific preprocessor options that GCC does not
     recognize.

     If you want to pass an option that takes an argument, you must use
     '-Xpreprocessor' twice, once for the option and once for the
     argument.

'-no-integrated-cpp'
     Perform preprocessing as a separate pass before compilation.  By
     default, GCC performs preprocessing as an integrated part of input
     tokenization and parsing.  If this option is provided, the
     appropriate language front end ('cc1', 'cc1plus', or 'cc1obj' for
     C, C++, and Objective-C, respectively) is instead invoked twice,
     once for preprocessing only and once for actual compilation of the
     preprocessed input.  This option may be useful in conjunction with
     the '-B' or '-wrapper' options to specify an alternate preprocessor
     or perform additional processing of the program source between
     normal preprocessing and compilation.

File: gcc.info,  Node: Assembler Options,  Next: Link Options,  Prev: Preprocessor Options,  Up: Invoking GCC

