3.14 Options for Linking
========================

These options come into play when the compiler links object files into
an executable output file.  They are meaningless if the compiler is not
doing a link step.

'OBJECT-FILE-NAME'
     A file name that does not end in a special recognized suffix is
     considered to name an object file or library.  (Object files are
     distinguished from libraries by the linker according to the file
     contents.)  If linking is done, these object files are used as
     input to the linker.

'-c'
'-S'
'-E'
     If any of these options is used, then the linker is not run, and
     object file names should not be used as arguments.  *Note Overall
     Options::.

'-flinker-output=TYPE'
     This option controls the code generation of the link time
     optimizer.  By default the linker output is determined by the
     linker plugin automatically.  For debugging the compiler and in the
     case of incremental linking to non-lto object file is desired, it
     may be useful to control the type manually.

     If TYPE is 'exec' the code generation is configured to produce
     static binary.  In this case '-fpic' and '-fpie' are both disabled.

     If TYPE is 'dyn' the code generation is configured to produce
     shared library.  In this case '-fpic' or '-fPIC' is preserved, but
     not enabled automatically.  This makes it possible to build shared
     libraries without position independent code on architectures this
     is possible, i.e. on x86.

     If TYPE is 'pie' the code generation is configured to produce
     '-fpie' executable.  This result in similar optimizations as 'exec'
     except that '-fpie' is not disabled if specified at compilation
     time.

     If TYPE is 'rel' the compiler assumes that incremental linking is
     done.  The sections containing intermediate code for link-time
     optimization are merged, pre-optimized, and output to the resulting
     object file.  In addition, if '-ffat-lto-objects' is specified the
     binary code is produced for future non-lto linking.  The object
     file produced by incremental linking will be smaller than a static
     library produced from the same object files.  At link-time the
     result of incremental linking will also load faster to compiler
     than a static library assuming that majority of objects in the
     library are used.

     Finally 'nolto-rel' configure compiler to for incremental linking
     where code generation is forced, final binary is produced and the
     intermediate code for later link-time optimization is stripped.
     When multiple object files are linked together the resulting code
     will be optimized better than with link time optimizations disabled
     (for example, the cross-module inlining will happen), most of
     benefits of whole program optimizations are however lost.

     During the incremental link (by '-r') the linker plugin will
     default to 'rel'.  With current interfaces to GNU Binutils it is
     however not possible to link incrementally LTO objects and non-LTO
     objects into a single mixed object file.  In the case any of object
     files in incremental link cannot be used for link-time optimization
     the linker plugin will output warning and use 'nolto-rel'.  To
     maintain the whole program optimization it is recommended to link
     such objects into static library instead.  Alternatively it is
     possible to use H.J. Lu's binutils with support for mixed objects.

'-fuse-ld=bfd'
     Use the 'bfd' linker instead of the default linker.

'-fuse-ld=gold'
     Use the 'gold' linker instead of the default linker.

'-fuse-ld=lld'
     Use the LLVM 'lld' linker instead of the default linker.

'-lLIBRARY'
'-l LIBRARY'
     Search the library named LIBRARY when linking.  (The second
     alternative with the library as a separate argument is only for
     POSIX compliance and is not recommended.)

     The '-l' option is passed directly to the linker by GCC. Refer to
     your linker documentation for exact details.  The general
     description below applies to the GNU linker.

     The linker searches a standard list of directories for the library.
     The directories searched include several standard system
     directories plus any that you specify with '-L'.

     Static libraries are archives of object files, and have file names
     like 'libLIBRARY.a'.  Some targets also support shared libraries,
     which typically have names like 'libLIBRARY.so'.  If both static
     and shared libraries are found, the linker gives preference to
     linking with the shared library unless the '-static' option is
     used.

     It makes a difference where in the command you write this option;
     the linker searches and processes libraries and object files in the
     order they are specified.  Thus, 'foo.o -lz bar.o' searches library
     'z' after file 'foo.o' but before 'bar.o'.  If 'bar.o' refers to
     functions in 'z', those functions may not be loaded.

'-lobjc'
     You need this special case of the '-l' option in order to link an
     Objective-C or Objective-C++ program.

'-nostartfiles'
     Do not use the standard system startup files when linking.  The
     standard system libraries are used normally, unless '-nostdlib',
     '-nolibc', or '-nodefaultlibs' is used.

'-nodefaultlibs'
     Do not use the standard system libraries when linking.  Only the
     libraries you specify are passed to the linker, and options
     specifying linkage of the system libraries, such as
     '-static-libgcc' or '-shared-libgcc', are ignored.  The standard
     startup files are used normally, unless '-nostartfiles' is used.

     The compiler may generate calls to 'memcmp', 'memset', 'memcpy' and
     'memmove'.  These entries are usually resolved by entries in libc.
     These entry points should be supplied through some other mechanism
     when this option is specified.

'-nolibc'
     Do not use the C library or system libraries tightly coupled with
     it when linking.  Still link with the startup files, 'libgcc' or
     toolchain provided language support libraries such as 'libgnat',
     'libgfortran' or 'libstdc++' unless options preventing their
     inclusion are used as well.  This typically removes '-lc' from the
     link command line, as well as system libraries that normally go
     with it and become meaningless when absence of a C library is
     assumed, for example '-lpthread' or '-lm' in some configurations.
     This is intended for bare-board targets when there is indeed no C
     library available.

'-nostdlib'
     Do not use the standard system startup files or libraries when
     linking.  No startup files and only the libraries you specify are
     passed to the linker, and options specifying linkage of the system
     libraries, such as '-static-libgcc' or '-shared-libgcc', are
     ignored.

     The compiler may generate calls to 'memcmp', 'memset', 'memcpy' and
     'memmove'.  These entries are usually resolved by entries in libc.
     These entry points should be supplied through some other mechanism
     when this option is specified.

     One of the standard libraries bypassed by '-nostdlib' and
     '-nodefaultlibs' is 'libgcc.a', a library of internal subroutines
     which GCC uses to overcome shortcomings of particular machines, or
     special needs for some languages.  (*Note Interfacing to GCC
     Output: (gccint)Interface, for more discussion of 'libgcc.a'.)  In
     most cases, you need 'libgcc.a' even when you want to avoid other
     standard libraries.  In other words, when you specify '-nostdlib'
     or '-nodefaultlibs' you should usually specify '-lgcc' as well.
     This ensures that you have no unresolved references to internal GCC
     library subroutines.  (An example of such an internal subroutine is
     '__main', used to ensure C++ constructors are called; *note
     'collect2': (gccint)Collect2.)

'-e ENTRY'
'--entry=ENTRY'

     Specify that the program entry point is ENTRY.  The argument is
     interpreted by the linker; the GNU linker accepts either a symbol
     name or an address.

'-pie'
     Produce a dynamically linked position independent executable on
     targets that support it.  For predictable results, you must also
     specify the same set of options used for compilation ('-fpie',
     '-fPIE', or model suboptions) when you specify this linker option.

'-no-pie'
     Don't produce a dynamically linked position independent executable.

'-static-pie'
     Produce a static position independent executable on targets that
     support it.  A static position independent executable is similar to
     a static executable, but can be loaded at any address without a
     dynamic linker.  For predictable results, you must also specify the
     same set of options used for compilation ('-fpie', '-fPIE', or
     model suboptions) when you specify this linker option.

'-pthread'
     Link with the POSIX threads library.  This option is supported on
     GNU/Linux targets, most other Unix derivatives, and also on x86
     Cygwin and MinGW targets.  On some targets this option also sets
     flags for the preprocessor, so it should be used consistently for
     both compilation and linking.

'-r'
     Produce a relocatable object as output.  This is also known as
     partial linking.

'-rdynamic'
     Pass the flag '-export-dynamic' to the ELF linker, on targets that
     support it.  This instructs the linker to add all symbols, not only
     used ones, to the dynamic symbol table.  This option is needed for
     some uses of 'dlopen' or to allow obtaining backtraces from within
     a program.

'-s'
     Remove all symbol table and relocation information from the
     executable.

'-static'
     On systems that support dynamic linking, this overrides '-pie' and
     prevents linking with the shared libraries.  On other systems, this
     option has no effect.

'-shared'
     Produce a shared object which can then be linked with other objects
     to form an executable.  Not all systems support this option.  For
     predictable results, you must also specify the same set of options
     used for compilation ('-fpic', '-fPIC', or model suboptions) when
     you specify this linker option.(1)

'-shared-libgcc'
'-static-libgcc'
     On systems that provide 'libgcc' as a shared library, these options
     force the use of either the shared or static version, respectively.
     If no shared version of 'libgcc' was built when the compiler was
     configured, these options have no effect.

     There are several situations in which an application should use the
     shared 'libgcc' instead of the static version.  The most common of
     these is when the application wishes to throw and catch exceptions
     across different shared libraries.  In that case, each of the
     libraries as well as the application itself should use the shared
     'libgcc'.

     Therefore, the G++ driver automatically adds '-shared-libgcc'
     whenever you build a shared library or a main executable, because
     C++ programs typically use exceptions, so this is the right thing
     to do.

     If, instead, you use the GCC driver to create shared libraries, you
     may find that they are not always linked with the shared 'libgcc'.
     If GCC finds, at its configuration time, that you have a non-GNU
     linker or a GNU linker that does not support option
     '--eh-frame-hdr', it links the shared version of 'libgcc' into
     shared libraries by default.  Otherwise, it takes advantage of the
     linker and optimizes away the linking with the shared version of
     'libgcc', linking with the static version of libgcc by default.
     This allows exceptions to propagate through such shared libraries,
     without incurring relocation costs at library load time.

     However, if a library or main executable is supposed to throw or
     catch exceptions, you must link it using the G++ driver, or using
     the option '-shared-libgcc', such that it is linked with the shared
     'libgcc'.

'-static-libasan'
     When the '-fsanitize=address' option is used to link a program, the
     GCC driver automatically links against 'libasan'.  If 'libasan' is
     available as a shared library, and the '-static' option is not
     used, then this links against the shared version of 'libasan'.  The
     '-static-libasan' option directs the GCC driver to link 'libasan'
     statically, without necessarily linking other libraries statically.

'-static-libtsan'
     When the '-fsanitize=thread' option is used to link a program, the
     GCC driver automatically links against 'libtsan'.  If 'libtsan' is
     available as a shared library, and the '-static' option is not
     used, then this links against the shared version of 'libtsan'.  The
     '-static-libtsan' option directs the GCC driver to link 'libtsan'
     statically, without necessarily linking other libraries statically.

'-static-liblsan'
     When the '-fsanitize=leak' option is used to link a program, the
     GCC driver automatically links against 'liblsan'.  If 'liblsan' is
     available as a shared library, and the '-static' option is not
     used, then this links against the shared version of 'liblsan'.  The
     '-static-liblsan' option directs the GCC driver to link 'liblsan'
     statically, without necessarily linking other libraries statically.

'-static-libubsan'
     When the '-fsanitize=undefined' option is used to link a program,
     the GCC driver automatically links against 'libubsan'.  If
     'libubsan' is available as a shared library, and the '-static'
     option is not used, then this links against the shared version of
     'libubsan'.  The '-static-libubsan' option directs the GCC driver
     to link 'libubsan' statically, without necessarily linking other
     libraries statically.

'-static-libstdc++'
     When the 'g++' program is used to link a C++ program, it normally
     automatically links against 'libstdc++'.  If 'libstdc++' is
     available as a shared library, and the '-static' option is not
     used, then this links against the shared version of 'libstdc++'.
     That is normally fine.  However, it is sometimes useful to freeze
     the version of 'libstdc++' used by the program without going all
     the way to a fully static link.  The '-static-libstdc++' option
     directs the 'g++' driver to link 'libstdc++' statically, without
     necessarily linking other libraries statically.

'-symbolic'
     Bind references to global symbols when building a shared object.
     Warn about any unresolved references (unless overridden by the link
     editor option '-Xlinker -z -Xlinker defs').  Only a few systems
     support this option.

'-T SCRIPT'
     Use SCRIPT as the linker script.  This option is supported by most
     systems using the GNU linker.  On some targets, such as bare-board
     targets without an operating system, the '-T' option may be
     required when linking to avoid references to undefined symbols.

'-Xlinker OPTION'
     Pass OPTION as an option to the linker.  You can use this to supply
     system-specific linker options that GCC does not recognize.

     If you want to pass an option that takes a separate argument, you
     must use '-Xlinker' twice, once for the option and once for the
     argument.  For example, to pass '-assert definitions', you must
     write '-Xlinker -assert -Xlinker definitions'.  It does not work to
     write '-Xlinker "-assert definitions"', because this passes the
     entire string as a single argument, which is not what the linker
     expects.

     When using the GNU linker, it is usually more convenient to pass
     arguments to linker options using the 'OPTION=VALUE' syntax than as
     separate arguments.  For example, you can specify '-Xlinker
     -Map=output.map' rather than '-Xlinker -Map -Xlinker output.map'.
     Other linkers may not support this syntax for command-line options.

'-Wl,OPTION'
     Pass OPTION as an option to the linker.  If OPTION contains commas,
     it is split into multiple options at the commas.  You can use this
     syntax to pass an argument to the option.  For example,
     '-Wl,-Map,output.map' passes '-Map output.map' to the linker.  When
     using the GNU linker, you can also get the same effect with
     '-Wl,-Map=output.map'.

'-u SYMBOL'
     Pretend the symbol SYMBOL is undefined, to force linking of library
     modules to define it.  You can use '-u' multiple times with
     different symbols to force loading of additional library modules.

'-z KEYWORD'
     '-z' is passed directly on to the linker along with the keyword
     KEYWORD.  See the section in the documentation of your linker for
     permitted values and their meanings.

   ---------- Footnotes ----------

   (1) On some systems, 'gcc -shared' needs to build supplementary stub
code for constructors to work.  On multi-libbed systems, 'gcc -shared'
must select the correct support libraries to link against.  Failing to
supply the correct flags may lead to subtle defects.  Supplying them in
cases where they are not necessary is innocuous.

File: gcc.info,  Node: Directory Options,  Next: Code Gen Options,  Prev: Link Options,  Up: Invoking GCC

