3.17 GCC Developer Options
==========================

This section describes command-line options that are primarily of
interest to GCC developers, including options to support compiler
testing and investigation of compiler bugs and compile-time performance
problems.  This includes options that produce debug dumps at various
points in the compilation; that print statistics such as memory use and
execution time; and that print information about GCC's configuration,
such as where it searches for libraries.  You should rarely need to use
any of these options for ordinary compilation and linking tasks.

 Many developer options that cause GCC to dump output to a file take an
optional '=FILENAME' suffix.  You can specify 'stdout' or '-' to dump to
standard output, and 'stderr' for standard error.

 If '=FILENAME' is omitted, a default dump file name is constructed by
concatenating the base dump file name, a pass number, phase letter, and
pass name.  The base dump file name is the name of output file produced
by the compiler if explicitly specified and not an executable; otherwise
it is the source file name.  The pass number is determined by the order
passes are registered with the compiler's pass manager.  This is
generally the same as the order of execution, but passes registered by
plugins, target-specific passes, or passes that are otherwise registered
late are numbered higher than the pass named 'final', even if they are
executed earlier.  The phase letter is one of 'i' (inter-procedural
analysis), 'l' (language-specific), 'r' (RTL), or 't' (tree).  The files
are created in the directory of the output file.

'-dLETTERS'
'-fdump-rtl-PASS'
'-fdump-rtl-PASS=FILENAME'
     Says to make debugging dumps during compilation at times specified
     by LETTERS.  This is used for debugging the RTL-based passes of the
     compiler.

     Some '-dLETTERS' switches have different meaning when '-E' is used
     for preprocessing.  *Note Preprocessor Options::, for information
     about preprocessor-specific dump options.

     Debug dumps can be enabled with a '-fdump-rtl' switch or some '-d'
     option LETTERS.  Here are the possible letters for use in PASS and
     LETTERS, and their meanings:

     '-fdump-rtl-alignments'
          Dump after branch alignments have been computed.

     '-fdump-rtl-asmcons'
          Dump after fixing rtl statements that have unsatisfied in/out
          constraints.

     '-fdump-rtl-auto_inc_dec'
          Dump after auto-inc-dec discovery.  This pass is only run on
          architectures that have auto inc or auto dec instructions.

     '-fdump-rtl-barriers'
          Dump after cleaning up the barrier instructions.

     '-fdump-rtl-bbpart'
          Dump after partitioning hot and cold basic blocks.

     '-fdump-rtl-bbro'
          Dump after block reordering.

     '-fdump-rtl-btl1'
     '-fdump-rtl-btl2'
          '-fdump-rtl-btl1' and '-fdump-rtl-btl2' enable dumping after
          the two branch target load optimization passes.

     '-fdump-rtl-bypass'
          Dump after jump bypassing and control flow optimizations.

     '-fdump-rtl-combine'
          Dump after the RTL instruction combination pass.

     '-fdump-rtl-compgotos'
          Dump after duplicating the computed gotos.

     '-fdump-rtl-ce1'
     '-fdump-rtl-ce2'
     '-fdump-rtl-ce3'
          '-fdump-rtl-ce1', '-fdump-rtl-ce2', and '-fdump-rtl-ce3'
          enable dumping after the three if conversion passes.

     '-fdump-rtl-cprop_hardreg'
          Dump after hard register copy propagation.

     '-fdump-rtl-csa'
          Dump after combining stack adjustments.

     '-fdump-rtl-cse1'
     '-fdump-rtl-cse2'
          '-fdump-rtl-cse1' and '-fdump-rtl-cse2' enable dumping after
          the two common subexpression elimination passes.

     '-fdump-rtl-dce'
          Dump after the standalone dead code elimination passes.

     '-fdump-rtl-dbr'
          Dump after delayed branch scheduling.

     '-fdump-rtl-dce1'
     '-fdump-rtl-dce2'
          '-fdump-rtl-dce1' and '-fdump-rtl-dce2' enable dumping after
          the two dead store elimination passes.

     '-fdump-rtl-eh'
          Dump after finalization of EH handling code.

     '-fdump-rtl-eh_ranges'
          Dump after conversion of EH handling range regions.

     '-fdump-rtl-expand'
          Dump after RTL generation.

     '-fdump-rtl-fwprop1'
     '-fdump-rtl-fwprop2'
          '-fdump-rtl-fwprop1' and '-fdump-rtl-fwprop2' enable dumping
          after the two forward propagation passes.

     '-fdump-rtl-gcse1'
     '-fdump-rtl-gcse2'
          '-fdump-rtl-gcse1' and '-fdump-rtl-gcse2' enable dumping after
          global common subexpression elimination.

     '-fdump-rtl-init-regs'
          Dump after the initialization of the registers.

     '-fdump-rtl-initvals'
          Dump after the computation of the initial value sets.

     '-fdump-rtl-into_cfglayout'
          Dump after converting to cfglayout mode.

     '-fdump-rtl-ira'
          Dump after iterated register allocation.

     '-fdump-rtl-jump'
          Dump after the second jump optimization.

     '-fdump-rtl-loop2'
          '-fdump-rtl-loop2' enables dumping after the rtl loop
          optimization passes.

     '-fdump-rtl-mach'
          Dump after performing the machine dependent reorganization
          pass, if that pass exists.

     '-fdump-rtl-mode_sw'
          Dump after removing redundant mode switches.

     '-fdump-rtl-rnreg'
          Dump after register renumbering.

     '-fdump-rtl-outof_cfglayout'
          Dump after converting from cfglayout mode.

     '-fdump-rtl-peephole2'
          Dump after the peephole pass.

     '-fdump-rtl-postreload'
          Dump after post-reload optimizations.

     '-fdump-rtl-pro_and_epilogue'
          Dump after generating the function prologues and epilogues.

     '-fdump-rtl-sched1'
     '-fdump-rtl-sched2'
          '-fdump-rtl-sched1' and '-fdump-rtl-sched2' enable dumping
          after the basic block scheduling passes.

     '-fdump-rtl-ree'
          Dump after sign/zero extension elimination.

     '-fdump-rtl-seqabstr'
          Dump after common sequence discovery.

     '-fdump-rtl-shorten'
          Dump after shortening branches.

     '-fdump-rtl-sibling'
          Dump after sibling call optimizations.

     '-fdump-rtl-split1'
     '-fdump-rtl-split2'
     '-fdump-rtl-split3'
     '-fdump-rtl-split4'
     '-fdump-rtl-split5'
          These options enable dumping after five rounds of instruction
          splitting.

     '-fdump-rtl-sms'
          Dump after modulo scheduling.  This pass is only run on some
          architectures.

     '-fdump-rtl-stack'
          Dump after conversion from GCC's "flat register file"
          registers to the x87's stack-like registers.  This pass is
          only run on x86 variants.

     '-fdump-rtl-subreg1'
     '-fdump-rtl-subreg2'
          '-fdump-rtl-subreg1' and '-fdump-rtl-subreg2' enable dumping
          after the two subreg expansion passes.

     '-fdump-rtl-unshare'
          Dump after all rtl has been unshared.

     '-fdump-rtl-vartrack'
          Dump after variable tracking.

     '-fdump-rtl-vregs'
          Dump after converting virtual registers to hard registers.

     '-fdump-rtl-web'
          Dump after live range splitting.

     '-fdump-rtl-regclass'
     '-fdump-rtl-subregs_of_mode_init'
     '-fdump-rtl-subregs_of_mode_finish'
     '-fdump-rtl-dfinit'
     '-fdump-rtl-dfinish'
          These dumps are defined but always produce empty files.

     '-da'
     '-fdump-rtl-all'
          Produce all the dumps listed above.

     '-dA'
          Annotate the assembler output with miscellaneous debugging
          information.

     '-dD'
          Dump all macro definitions, at the end of preprocessing, in
          addition to normal output.

     '-dH'
          Produce a core dump whenever an error occurs.

     '-dp'
          Annotate the assembler output with a comment indicating which
          pattern and alternative is used.  The length and cost of each
          instruction are also printed.

     '-dP'
          Dump the RTL in the assembler output as a comment before each
          instruction.  Also turns on '-dp' annotation.

     '-dx'
          Just generate RTL for a function instead of compiling it.
          Usually used with '-fdump-rtl-expand'.

'-fdump-debug'
     Dump debugging information generated during the debug generation
     phase.

'-fdump-earlydebug'
     Dump debugging information generated during the early debug
     generation phase.

'-fdump-noaddr'
     When doing debugging dumps, suppress address output.  This makes it
     more feasible to use diff on debugging dumps for compiler
     invocations with different compiler binaries and/or different text
     / bss / data / heap / stack / dso start locations.

'-freport-bug'
     Collect and dump debug information into a temporary file if an
     internal compiler error (ICE) occurs.

'-fdump-unnumbered'
     When doing debugging dumps, suppress instruction numbers and
     address output.  This makes it more feasible to use diff on
     debugging dumps for compiler invocations with different options, in
     particular with and without '-g'.

'-fdump-unnumbered-links'
     When doing debugging dumps (see '-d' option above), suppress
     instruction numbers for the links to the previous and next
     instructions in a sequence.

'-fdump-ipa-SWITCH'
'-fdump-ipa-SWITCH-OPTIONS'
     Control the dumping at various stages of inter-procedural analysis
     language tree to a file.  The file name is generated by appending a
     switch specific suffix to the source file name, and the file is
     created in the same directory as the output file.  The following
     dumps are possible:

     'all'
          Enables all inter-procedural analysis dumps.

     'cgraph'
          Dumps information about call-graph optimization, unused
          function removal, and inlining decisions.

     'inline'
          Dump after function inlining.

     Additionally, the options '-optimized', '-missed', '-note', and
     '-all' can be provided, with the same meaning as for '-fopt-info',
     defaulting to '-optimized'.

     For example, '-fdump-ipa-inline-optimized-missed' will emit
     information on callsites that were inlined, along with callsites
     that were not inlined.

     By default, the dump will contain messages about successful
     optimizations (equivalent to '-optimized') together with low-level
     details about the analysis.

'-fdump-lang-all'
'-fdump-lang-SWITCH'
'-fdump-lang-SWITCH-OPTIONS'
'-fdump-lang-SWITCH-OPTIONS=FILENAME'
     Control the dumping of language-specific information.  The OPTIONS
     and FILENAME portions behave as described in the '-fdump-tree'
     option.  The following SWITCH values are accepted:

     'all'

          Enable all language-specific dumps.

     'class'
          Dump class hierarchy information.  Virtual table information
          is emitted unless ''slim'' is specified.  This option is
          applicable to C++ only.

     'raw'
          Dump the raw internal tree data.  This option is applicable to
          C++ only.

'-fdump-passes'
     Print on 'stderr' the list of optimization passes that are turned
     on and off by the current command-line options.

'-fdump-statistics-OPTION'
     Enable and control dumping of pass statistics in a separate file.
     The file name is generated by appending a suffix ending in
     '.statistics' to the source file name, and the file is created in
     the same directory as the output file.  If the '-OPTION' form is
     used, '-stats' causes counters to be summed over the whole
     compilation unit while '-details' dumps every event as the passes
     generate them.  The default with no option is to sum counters for
     each function compiled.

'-fdump-tree-all'
'-fdump-tree-SWITCH'
'-fdump-tree-SWITCH-OPTIONS'
'-fdump-tree-SWITCH-OPTIONS=FILENAME'
     Control the dumping at various stages of processing the
     intermediate language tree to a file.  If the '-OPTIONS' form is
     used, OPTIONS is a list of '-' separated options which control the
     details of the dump.  Not all options are applicable to all dumps;
     those that are not meaningful are ignored.  The following options
     are available

     'address'
          Print the address of each node.  Usually this is not
          meaningful as it changes according to the environment and
          source file.  Its primary use is for tying up a dump file with
          a debug environment.
     'asmname'
          If 'DECL_ASSEMBLER_NAME' has been set for a given decl, use
          that in the dump instead of 'DECL_NAME'.  Its primary use is
          ease of use working backward from mangled names in the
          assembly file.
     'slim'
          When dumping front-end intermediate representations, inhibit
          dumping of members of a scope or body of a function merely
          because that scope has been reached.  Only dump such items
          when they are directly reachable by some other path.

          When dumping pretty-printed trees, this option inhibits
          dumping the bodies of control structures.

          When dumping RTL, print the RTL in slim (condensed) form
          instead of the default LISP-like representation.
     'raw'
          Print a raw representation of the tree.  By default, trees are
          pretty-printed into a C-like representation.
     'details'
          Enable more detailed dumps (not honored by every dump option).
          Also include information from the optimization passes.
     'stats'
          Enable dumping various statistics about the pass (not honored
          by every dump option).
     'blocks'
          Enable showing basic block boundaries (disabled in raw dumps).
     'graph'
          For each of the other indicated dump files
          ('-fdump-rtl-PASS'), dump a representation of the control flow
          graph suitable for viewing with GraphViz to
          'FILE.PASSID.PASS.dot'.  Each function in the file is
          pretty-printed as a subgraph, so that GraphViz can render them
          all in a single plot.

          This option currently only works for RTL dumps, and the RTL is
          always dumped in slim form.
     'vops'
          Enable showing virtual operands for every statement.
     'lineno'
          Enable showing line numbers for statements.
     'uid'
          Enable showing the unique ID ('DECL_UID') for each variable.
     'verbose'
          Enable showing the tree dump for each statement.
     'eh'
          Enable showing the EH region number holding each statement.
     'scev'
          Enable showing scalar evolution analysis details.
     'optimized'
          Enable showing optimization information (only available in
          certain passes).
     'missed'
          Enable showing missed optimization information (only available
          in certain passes).
     'note'
          Enable other detailed optimization information (only available
          in certain passes).
     'all'
          Turn on all options, except 'raw', 'slim', 'verbose' and
          'lineno'.
     'optall'
          Turn on all optimization options, i.e., 'optimized', 'missed',
          and 'note'.

     To determine what tree dumps are available or find the dump for a
     pass of interest follow the steps below.

       1. Invoke GCC with '-fdump-passes' and in the 'stderr' output
          look for a code that corresponds to the pass you are
          interested in.  For example, the codes 'tree-evrp',
          'tree-vrp1', and 'tree-vrp2' correspond to the three Value
          Range Propagation passes.  The number at the end distinguishes
          distinct invocations of the same pass.
       2. To enable the creation of the dump file, append the pass code
          to the '-fdump-' option prefix and invoke GCC with it.  For
          example, to enable the dump from the Early Value Range
          Propagation pass, invoke GCC with the '-fdump-tree-evrp'
          option.  Optionally, you may specify the name of the dump
          file.  If you don't specify one, GCC creates as described
          below.
       3. Find the pass dump in a file whose name is composed of three
          components separated by a period: the name of the source file
          GCC was invoked to compile, a numeric suffix indicating the
          pass number followed by the letter 't' for tree passes (and
          the letter 'r' for RTL passes), and finally the pass code.
          For example, the Early VRP pass dump might be in a file named
          'myfile.c.038t.evrp' in the current working directory.  Note
          that the numeric codes are not stable and may change from one
          version of GCC to another.

'-fopt-info'
'-fopt-info-OPTIONS'
'-fopt-info-OPTIONS=FILENAME'
     Controls optimization dumps from various optimization passes.  If
     the '-OPTIONS' form is used, OPTIONS is a list of '-' separated
     option keywords to select the dump details and optimizations.

     The OPTIONS can be divided into three groups:
       1. options describing what kinds of messages should be emitted,
       2. options describing the verbosity of the dump, and
       3. options describing which optimizations should be included.
     The options from each group can be freely mixed as they are
     non-overlapping.  However, in case of any conflicts, the later
     options override the earlier options on the command line.

     The following options control which kinds of messages should be
     emitted:

     'optimized'
          Print information when an optimization is successfully
          applied.  It is up to a pass to decide which information is
          relevant.  For example, the vectorizer passes print the source
          location of loops which are successfully vectorized.
     'missed'
          Print information about missed optimizations.  Individual
          passes control which information to include in the output.
     'note'
          Print verbose information about optimizations, such as certain
          transformations, more detailed messages about decisions etc.
     'all'
          Print detailed optimization information.  This includes
          'optimized', 'missed', and 'note'.

     The following option controls the dump verbosity:

     'internals'
          By default, only "high-level" messages are emitted.  This
          option enables additional, more detailed, messages, which are
          likely to only be of interest to GCC developers.

     One or more of the following option keywords can be used to
     describe a group of optimizations:

     'ipa'
          Enable dumps from all interprocedural optimizations.
     'loop'
          Enable dumps from all loop optimizations.
     'inline'
          Enable dumps from all inlining optimizations.
     'omp'
          Enable dumps from all OMP (Offloading and Multi Processing)
          optimizations.
     'vec'
          Enable dumps from all vectorization optimizations.
     'optall'
          Enable dumps from all optimizations.  This is a superset of
          the optimization groups listed above.

     If OPTIONS is omitted, it defaults to 'optimized-optall', which
     means to dump messages about successful optimizations from all the
     passes, omitting messages that are treated as "internals".

     If the FILENAME is provided, then the dumps from all the applicable
     optimizations are concatenated into the FILENAME.  Otherwise the
     dump is output onto 'stderr'.  Though multiple '-fopt-info' options
     are accepted, only one of them can include a FILENAME.  If other
     filenames are provided then all but the first such option are
     ignored.

     Note that the output FILENAME is overwritten in case of multiple
     translation units.  If a combined output from multiple translation
     units is desired, 'stderr' should be used instead.

     In the following example, the optimization info is output to
     'stderr':

          gcc -O3 -fopt-info

     This example:
          gcc -O3 -fopt-info-missed=missed.all

     outputs missed optimization report from all the passes into
     'missed.all', and this one:

          gcc -O2 -ftree-vectorize -fopt-info-vec-missed

     prints information about missed optimization opportunities from
     vectorization passes on 'stderr'.  Note that
     '-fopt-info-vec-missed' is equivalent to '-fopt-info-missed-vec'.
     The order of the optimization group names and message types listed
     after '-fopt-info' does not matter.

     As another example,
          gcc -O3 -fopt-info-inline-optimized-missed=inline.txt

     outputs information about missed optimizations as well as optimized
     locations from all the inlining passes into 'inline.txt'.

     Finally, consider:

          gcc -fopt-info-vec-missed=vec.miss -fopt-info-loop-optimized=loop.opt

     Here the two output filenames 'vec.miss' and 'loop.opt' are in
     conflict since only one output file is allowed.  In this case, only
     the first option takes effect and the subsequent options are
     ignored.  Thus only 'vec.miss' is produced which contains dumps
     from the vectorizer about missed opportunities.

'-fsave-optimization-record'
     Write a SRCFILE.opt-record.json.gz file detailing what
     optimizations were performed, for those optimizations that support
     '-fopt-info'.

     This option is experimental and the format of the data within the
     compressed JSON file is subject to change.

     It is roughly equivalent to a machine-readable version of
     '-fopt-info-all', as a collection of messages with source file,
     line number and column number, with the following additional data
     for each message:

        * the execution count of the code being optimized, along with
          metadata about whether this was from actual profile data, or
          just an estimate, allowing consumers to prioritize messages by
          code hotness,

        * the function name of the code being optimized, where
          applicable,

        * the "inlining chain" for the code being optimized, so that
          when a function is inlined into several different places
          (which might themselves be inlined), the reader can
          distinguish between the copies,

        * objects identifying those parts of the message that refer to
          expressions, statements or symbol-table nodes, which of these
          categories they are, and, when available, their source code
          location,

        * the GCC pass that emitted the message, and

        * the location in GCC's own code from which the message was
          emitted

     Additionally, some messages are logically nested within other
     messages, reflecting implementation details of the optimization
     passes.

'-fsched-verbose=N'
     On targets that use instruction scheduling, this option controls
     the amount of debugging output the scheduler prints to the dump
     files.

     For N greater than zero, '-fsched-verbose' outputs the same
     information as '-fdump-rtl-sched1' and '-fdump-rtl-sched2'.  For N
     greater than one, it also output basic block probabilities,
     detailed ready list information and unit/insn info.  For N greater
     than two, it includes RTL at abort point, control-flow and regions
     info.  And for N over four, '-fsched-verbose' also includes
     dependence info.

'-fenable-KIND-PASS'
'-fdisable-KIND-PASS=RANGE-LIST'

     This is a set of options that are used to explicitly disable/enable
     optimization passes.  These options are intended for use for
     debugging GCC. Compiler users should use regular options for
     enabling/disabling passes instead.

     '-fdisable-ipa-PASS'
          Disable IPA pass PASS.  PASS is the pass name.  If the same
          pass is statically invoked in the compiler multiple times, the
          pass name should be appended with a sequential number starting
          from 1.

     '-fdisable-rtl-PASS'
     '-fdisable-rtl-PASS=RANGE-LIST'
          Disable RTL pass PASS.  PASS is the pass name.  If the same
          pass is statically invoked in the compiler multiple times, the
          pass name should be appended with a sequential number starting
          from 1.  RANGE-LIST is a comma-separated list of function
          ranges or assembler names.  Each range is a number pair
          separated by a colon.  The range is inclusive in both ends.
          If the range is trivial, the number pair can be simplified as
          a single number.  If the function's call graph node's UID
          falls within one of the specified ranges, the PASS is disabled
          for that function.  The UID is shown in the function header of
          a dump file, and the pass names can be dumped by using option
          '-fdump-passes'.

     '-fdisable-tree-PASS'
     '-fdisable-tree-PASS=RANGE-LIST'
          Disable tree pass PASS.  See '-fdisable-rtl' for the
          description of option arguments.

     '-fenable-ipa-PASS'
          Enable IPA pass PASS.  PASS is the pass name.  If the same
          pass is statically invoked in the compiler multiple times, the
          pass name should be appended with a sequential number starting
          from 1.

     '-fenable-rtl-PASS'
     '-fenable-rtl-PASS=RANGE-LIST'
          Enable RTL pass PASS.  See '-fdisable-rtl' for option argument
          description and examples.

     '-fenable-tree-PASS'
     '-fenable-tree-PASS=RANGE-LIST'
          Enable tree pass PASS.  See '-fdisable-rtl' for the
          description of option arguments.

     Here are some examples showing uses of these options.


          # disable ccp1 for all functions
             -fdisable-tree-ccp1
          # disable complete unroll for function whose cgraph node uid is 1
             -fenable-tree-cunroll=1
          # disable gcse2 for functions at the following ranges [1,1],
          # [300,400], and [400,1000]
          # disable gcse2 for functions foo and foo2
             -fdisable-rtl-gcse2=foo,foo2
          # disable early inlining
             -fdisable-tree-einline
          # disable ipa inlining
             -fdisable-ipa-inline
          # enable tree full unroll
             -fenable-tree-unroll


'-fchecking'
'-fchecking=N'
     Enable internal consistency checking.  The default depends on the
     compiler configuration.  '-fchecking=2' enables further internal
     consistency checking that might affect code generation.

'-frandom-seed=STRING'
     This option provides a seed that GCC uses in place of random
     numbers in generating certain symbol names that have to be
     different in every compiled file.  It is also used to place unique
     stamps in coverage data files and the object files that produce
     them.  You can use the '-frandom-seed' option to produce
     reproducibly identical object files.

     The STRING can either be a number (decimal, octal or hex) or an
     arbitrary string (in which case it's converted to a number by
     computing CRC32).

     The STRING should be different for every file you compile.

'-save-temps'
'-save-temps=cwd'
     Store the usual "temporary" intermediate files permanently; place
     them in the current directory and name them based on the source
     file.  Thus, compiling 'foo.c' with '-c -save-temps' produces files
     'foo.i' and 'foo.s', as well as 'foo.o'.  This creates a
     preprocessed 'foo.i' output file even though the compiler now
     normally uses an integrated preprocessor.

     When used in combination with the '-x' command-line option,
     '-save-temps' is sensible enough to avoid over writing an input
     source file with the same extension as an intermediate file.  The
     corresponding intermediate file may be obtained by renaming the
     source file before using '-save-temps'.

     If you invoke GCC in parallel, compiling several different source
     files that share a common base name in different subdirectories or
     the same source file compiled for multiple output destinations, it
     is likely that the different parallel compilers will interfere with
     each other, and overwrite the temporary files.  For instance:

          gcc -save-temps -o outdir1/foo.o indir1/foo.c&
          gcc -save-temps -o outdir2/foo.o indir2/foo.c&

     may result in 'foo.i' and 'foo.o' being written to simultaneously
     by both compilers.

'-save-temps=obj'
     Store the usual "temporary" intermediate files permanently.  If the
     '-o' option is used, the temporary files are based on the object
     file.  If the '-o' option is not used, the '-save-temps=obj' switch
     behaves like '-save-temps'.

     For example:

          gcc -save-temps=obj -c foo.c
          gcc -save-temps=obj -c bar.c -o dir/xbar.o
          gcc -save-temps=obj foobar.c -o dir2/yfoobar

     creates 'foo.i', 'foo.s', 'dir/xbar.i', 'dir/xbar.s',
     'dir2/yfoobar.i', 'dir2/yfoobar.s', and 'dir2/yfoobar.o'.

'-time[=FILE]'
     Report the CPU time taken by each subprocess in the compilation
     sequence.  For C source files, this is the compiler proper and
     assembler (plus the linker if linking is done).

     Without the specification of an output file, the output looks like
     this:

          # cc1 0.12 0.01
          # as 0.00 0.01

     The first number on each line is the "user time", that is time
     spent executing the program itself.  The second number is "system
     time", time spent executing operating system routines on behalf of
     the program.  Both numbers are in seconds.

     With the specification of an output file, the output is appended to
     the named file, and it looks like this:

          0.12 0.01 cc1 OPTIONS
          0.00 0.01 as OPTIONS

     The "user time" and the "system time" are moved before the program
     name, and the options passed to the program are displayed, so that
     one can later tell what file was being compiled, and with which
     options.

'-fdump-final-insns[=FILE]'
     Dump the final internal representation (RTL) to FILE.  If the
     optional argument is omitted (or if FILE is '.'), the name of the
     dump file is determined by appending '.gkd' to the compilation
     output file name.

'-fcompare-debug[=OPTS]'
     If no error occurs during compilation, run the compiler a second
     time, adding OPTS and '-fcompare-debug-second' to the arguments
     passed to the second compilation.  Dump the final internal
     representation in both compilations, and print an error if they
     differ.

     If the equal sign is omitted, the default '-gtoggle' is used.

     The environment variable 'GCC_COMPARE_DEBUG', if defined, non-empty
     and nonzero, implicitly enables '-fcompare-debug'.  If
     'GCC_COMPARE_DEBUG' is defined to a string starting with a dash,
     then it is used for OPTS, otherwise the default '-gtoggle' is used.

     '-fcompare-debug=', with the equal sign but without OPTS, is
     equivalent to '-fno-compare-debug', which disables the dumping of
     the final representation and the second compilation, preventing
     even 'GCC_COMPARE_DEBUG' from taking effect.

     To verify full coverage during '-fcompare-debug' testing, set
     'GCC_COMPARE_DEBUG' to say '-fcompare-debug-not-overridden', which
     GCC rejects as an invalid option in any actual compilation (rather
     than preprocessing, assembly or linking).  To get just a warning,
     setting 'GCC_COMPARE_DEBUG' to '-w%n-fcompare-debug not overridden'
     will do.

'-fcompare-debug-second'
     This option is implicitly passed to the compiler for the second
     compilation requested by '-fcompare-debug', along with options to
     silence warnings, and omitting other options that would cause the
     compiler to produce output to files or to standard output as a side
     effect.  Dump files and preserved temporary files are renamed so as
     to contain the '.gk' additional extension during the second
     compilation, to avoid overwriting those generated by the first.

     When this option is passed to the compiler driver, it causes the
     _first_ compilation to be skipped, which makes it useful for little
     other than debugging the compiler proper.

'-gtoggle'
     Turn off generation of debug info, if leaving out this option
     generates it, or turn it on at level 2 otherwise.  The position of
     this argument in the command line does not matter; it takes effect
     after all other options are processed, and it does so only once, no
     matter how many times it is given.  This is mainly intended to be
     used with '-fcompare-debug'.

'-fvar-tracking-assignments-toggle'
     Toggle '-fvar-tracking-assignments', in the same way that
     '-gtoggle' toggles '-g'.

'-Q'
     Makes the compiler print out each function name as it is compiled,
     and print some statistics about each pass when it finishes.

'-ftime-report'
     Makes the compiler print some statistics about the time consumed by
     each pass when it finishes.

'-ftime-report-details'
     Record the time consumed by infrastructure parts separately for
     each pass.

'-fira-verbose=N'
     Control the verbosity of the dump file for the integrated register
     allocator.  The default value is 5.  If the value N is greater or
     equal to 10, the dump output is sent to stderr using the same
     format as N minus 10.

'-flto-report'
     Prints a report with internal details on the workings of the
     link-time optimizer.  The contents of this report vary from version
     to version.  It is meant to be useful to GCC developers when
     processing object files in LTO mode (via '-flto').

     Disabled by default.

'-flto-report-wpa'
     Like '-flto-report', but only print for the WPA phase of Link Time
     Optimization.

'-fmem-report'
     Makes the compiler print some statistics about permanent memory
     allocation when it finishes.

'-fmem-report-wpa'
     Makes the compiler print some statistics about permanent memory
     allocation for the WPA phase only.

'-fpre-ipa-mem-report'
'-fpost-ipa-mem-report'
     Makes the compiler print some statistics about permanent memory
     allocation before or after interprocedural optimization.

'-fprofile-report'
     Makes the compiler print some statistics about consistency of the
     (estimated) profile and effect of individual passes.

'-fstack-usage'
     Makes the compiler output stack usage information for the program,
     on a per-function basis.  The filename for the dump is made by
     appending '.su' to the AUXNAME.  AUXNAME is generated from the name
     of the output file, if explicitly specified and it is not an
     executable, otherwise it is the basename of the source file.  An
     entry is made up of three fields:

        * The name of the function.
        * A number of bytes.
        * One or more qualifiers: 'static', 'dynamic', 'bounded'.

     The qualifier 'static' means that the function manipulates the
     stack statically: a fixed number of bytes are allocated for the
     frame on function entry and released on function exit; no stack
     adjustments are otherwise made in the function.  The second field
     is this fixed number of bytes.

     The qualifier 'dynamic' means that the function manipulates the
     stack dynamically: in addition to the static allocation described
     above, stack adjustments are made in the body of the function, for
     example to push/pop arguments around function calls.  If the
     qualifier 'bounded' is also present, the amount of these
     adjustments is bounded at compile time and the second field is an
     upper bound of the total amount of stack used by the function.  If
     it is not present, the amount of these adjustments is not bounded
     at compile time and the second field only represents the bounded
     part.

'-fstats'
     Emit statistics about front-end processing at the end of the
     compilation.  This option is supported only by the C++ front end,
     and the information is generally only useful to the G++ development
     team.

'-fdbg-cnt-list'
     Print the name and the counter upper bound for all debug counters.

'-fdbg-cnt=COUNTER-VALUE-LIST'
     Set the internal debug counter lower and upper bound.
     COUNTER-VALUE-LIST is a comma-separated list of
     NAME:LOWER_BOUND:UPPER_BOUND tuples which sets the lower and the
     upper bound of each debug counter NAME.  The LOWER_BOUND is
     optional and is zero initialized if not set.  All debug counters
     have the initial upper bound of 'UINT_MAX'; thus 'dbg_cnt' returns
     true always unless the upper bound is set by this option.  For
     example, with '-fdbg-cnt=dce:2:4,tail_call:10', 'dbg_cnt(dce)'
     returns true only for third and fourth invocation.  For
     'dbg_cnt(tail_call)' true is returned for first 10 invocations.

'-print-file-name=LIBRARY'
     Print the full absolute name of the library file LIBRARY that would
     be used when linking--and don't do anything else.  With this
     option, GCC does not compile or link anything; it just prints the
     file name.

'-print-multi-directory'
     Print the directory name corresponding to the multilib selected by
     any other switches present in the command line.  This directory is
     supposed to exist in 'GCC_EXEC_PREFIX'.

'-print-multi-lib'
     Print the mapping from multilib directory names to compiler
     switches that enable them.  The directory name is separated from
     the switches by ';', and each switch starts with an '@' instead of
     the '-', without spaces between multiple switches.  This is
     supposed to ease shell processing.

'-print-multi-os-directory'
     Print the path to OS libraries for the selected multilib, relative
     to some 'lib' subdirectory.  If OS libraries are present in the
     'lib' subdirectory and no multilibs are used, this is usually just
     '.', if OS libraries are present in 'libSUFFIX' sibling directories
     this prints e.g. '../lib64', '../lib' or '../lib32', or if OS
     libraries are present in 'lib/SUBDIR' subdirectories it prints e.g.
     'amd64', 'sparcv9' or 'ev6'.

'-print-multiarch'
     Print the path to OS libraries for the selected multiarch, relative
     to some 'lib' subdirectory.

'-print-prog-name=PROGRAM'
     Like '-print-file-name', but searches for a program such as 'cpp'.

'-print-libgcc-file-name'
     Same as '-print-file-name=libgcc.a'.

     This is useful when you use '-nostdlib' or '-nodefaultlibs' but you
     do want to link with 'libgcc.a'.  You can do:

          gcc -nostdlib FILES... `gcc -print-libgcc-file-name`

'-print-search-dirs'
     Print the name of the configured installation directory and a list
     of program and library directories 'gcc' searches--and don't do
     anything else.

     This is useful when 'gcc' prints the error message 'installation
     problem, cannot exec cpp0: No such file or directory'.  To resolve
     this you either need to put 'cpp0' and the other compiler
     components where 'gcc' expects to find them, or you can set the
     environment variable 'GCC_EXEC_PREFIX' to the directory where you
     installed them.  Don't forget the trailing '/'.  *Note Environment
     Variables::.

'-print-sysroot'
     Print the target sysroot directory that is used during compilation.
     This is the target sysroot specified either at configure time or
     using the '--sysroot' option, possibly with an extra suffix that
     depends on compilation options.  If no target sysroot is specified,
     the option prints nothing.

'-print-sysroot-headers-suffix'
     Print the suffix added to the target sysroot when searching for
     headers, or give an error if the compiler is not configured with
     such a suffix--and don't do anything else.

'-dumpmachine'
     Print the compiler's target machine (for example,
     'i686-pc-linux-gnu')--and don't do anything else.

'-dumpversion'
     Print the compiler version (for example, '3.0', '6.3.0' or
     '7')--and don't do anything else.  This is the compiler version
     used in filesystem paths and specs.  Depending on how the compiler
     has been configured it can be just a single number (major version),
     two numbers separated by a dot (major and minor version) or three
     numbers separated by dots (major, minor and patchlevel version).

'-dumpfullversion'
     Print the full compiler version--and don't do anything else.  The
     output is always three numbers separated by dots, major, minor and
     patchlevel version.

'-dumpspecs'
     Print the compiler's built-in specs--and don't do anything else.
     (This is used when GCC itself is being built.)  *Note Spec Files::.

File: gcc.info,  Node: Submodel Options,  Next: Spec Files,  Prev: Developer Options,  Up: Invoking GCC

