3.18 Machine-Dependent Options
==============================

Each target machine supported by GCC can have its own options--for
example, to allow you to compile for a particular processor variant or
ABI, or to control optimizations specific to that machine.  By
convention, the names of machine-specific options start with '-m'.

 Some configurations of the compiler also support additional
target-specific options, usually for compatibility with other compilers
on the same platform.

* Menu:

* AArch64 Options::
* Adapteva Epiphany Options::
* AMD GCN Options::
* ARC Options::
* ARM Options::
* AVR Options::
* Blackfin Options::
* C6X Options::
* CRIS Options::
* CR16 Options::
* C-SKY Options::
* Darwin Options::
* DEC Alpha Options::
* FR30 Options::
* FT32 Options::
* FRV Options::
* GNU/Linux Options::
* H8/300 Options::
* HPPA Options::
* IA-64 Options::
* LM32 Options::
* M32C Options::
* M32R/D Options::
* M680x0 Options::
* MCore Options::
* MeP Options::
* MicroBlaze Options::
* MIPS Options::
* MMIX Options::
* MN10300 Options::
* Moxie Options::
* MSP430 Options::
* NDS32 Options::
* Nios II Options::
* Nvidia PTX Options::
* OpenRISC Options::
* PDP-11 Options::
* picoChip Options::
* PowerPC Options::
* RISC-V Options::
* RL78 Options::
* RS/6000 and PowerPC Options::
* RX Options::
* S/390 and zSeries Options::
* Score Options::
* SH Options::
* Solaris 2 Options::
* SPARC Options::
* SPU Options::
* System V Options::
* TILE-Gx Options::
* TILEPro Options::
* V850 Options::
* VAX Options::
* Visium Options::
* VMS Options::
* VxWorks Options::
* x86 Options::
* x86 Windows Options::
* Xstormy16 Options::
* Xtensa Options::
* zSeries Options::

File: gcc.info,  Node: AArch64 Options,  Next: Adapteva Epiphany Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.1 AArch64 Options
----------------------

These options are defined for AArch64 implementations:

'-mabi=NAME'
     Generate code for the specified data model.  Permissible values are
     'ilp32' for SysV-like data model where int, long int and pointers
     are 32 bits, and 'lp64' for SysV-like data model where int is 32
     bits, but long int and pointers are 64 bits.

     The default depends on the specific target configuration.  Note
     that the LP64 and ILP32 ABIs are not link-compatible; you must
     compile your entire program with the same ABI, and link with a
     compatible set of libraries.

'-mbig-endian'
     Generate big-endian code.  This is the default when GCC is
     configured for an 'aarch64_be-*-*' target.

'-mgeneral-regs-only'
     Generate code which uses only the general-purpose registers.  This
     will prevent the compiler from using floating-point and Advanced
     SIMD registers but will not impose any restrictions on the
     assembler.

'-mlittle-endian'
     Generate little-endian code.  This is the default when GCC is
     configured for an 'aarch64-*-*' but not an 'aarch64_be-*-*' target.

'-mcmodel=tiny'
     Generate code for the tiny code model.  The program and its
     statically defined symbols must be within 1MB of each other.
     Programs can be statically or dynamically linked.

'-mcmodel=small'
     Generate code for the small code model.  The program and its
     statically defined symbols must be within 4GB of each other.
     Programs can be statically or dynamically linked.  This is the
     default code model.

'-mcmodel=large'
     Generate code for the large code model.  This makes no assumptions
     about addresses and sizes of sections.  Programs can be statically
     linked only.

'-mstrict-align'
'-mno-strict-align'
     Avoid or allow generating memory accesses that may not be aligned
     on a natural object boundary as described in the architecture
     specification.

'-momit-leaf-frame-pointer'
'-mno-omit-leaf-frame-pointer'
     Omit or keep the frame pointer in leaf functions.  The former
     behavior is the default.

'-mstack-protector-guard=GUARD'
'-mstack-protector-guard-reg=REG'
'-mstack-protector-guard-offset=OFFSET'
     Generate stack protection code using canary at GUARD.  Supported
     locations are 'global' for a global canary or 'sysreg' for a canary
     in an appropriate system register.

     With the latter choice the options
     '-mstack-protector-guard-reg=REG' and
     '-mstack-protector-guard-offset=OFFSET' furthermore specify which
     system register to use as base register for reading the canary, and
     from what offset from that base register.  There is no default
     register or offset as this is entirely for use within the Linux
     kernel.

'-mstack-protector-guard=GUARD'
'-mstack-protector-guard-reg=REG'
'-mstack-protector-guard-offset=OFFSET'
     Generate stack protection code using canary at GUARD.  Supported
     locations are 'global' for a global canary or 'sysreg' for a canary
     in an appropriate system register.

     With the latter choice the options
     '-mstack-protector-guard-reg=REG' and
     '-mstack-protector-guard-offset=OFFSET' furthermore specify which
     system register to use as base register for reading the canary, and
     from what offset from that base register.  There is no default
     register or offset as this is entirely for use within the Linux
     kernel.

'-mtls-dialect=desc'
     Use TLS descriptors as the thread-local storage mechanism for
     dynamic accesses of TLS variables.  This is the default.

'-mtls-dialect=traditional'
     Use traditional TLS as the thread-local storage mechanism for
     dynamic accesses of TLS variables.

'-mtls-size=SIZE'
     Specify bit size of immediate TLS offsets.  Valid values are 12,
     24, 32, 48.  This option requires binutils 2.26 or newer.

'-mfix-cortex-a53-835769'
'-mno-fix-cortex-a53-835769'
     Enable or disable the workaround for the ARM Cortex-A53 erratum
     number 835769.  This involves inserting a NOP instruction between
     memory instructions and 64-bit integer multiply-accumulate
     instructions.

'-mfix-cortex-a53-843419'
'-mno-fix-cortex-a53-843419'
     Enable or disable the workaround for the ARM Cortex-A53 erratum
     number 843419.  This erratum workaround is made at link time and
     this will only pass the corresponding flag to the linker.

'-mlow-precision-recip-sqrt'
'-mno-low-precision-recip-sqrt'
     Enable or disable the reciprocal square root approximation.  This
     option only has an effect if '-ffast-math' or
     '-funsafe-math-optimizations' is used as well.  Enabling this
     reduces precision of reciprocal square root results to about 16
     bits for single precision and to 32 bits for double precision.

'-mlow-precision-sqrt'
'-mno-low-precision-sqrt'
     Enable or disable the square root approximation.  This option only
     has an effect if '-ffast-math' or '-funsafe-math-optimizations' is
     used as well.  Enabling this reduces precision of square root
     results to about 16 bits for single precision and to 32 bits for
     double precision.  If enabled, it implies
     '-mlow-precision-recip-sqrt'.

'-mlow-precision-div'
'-mno-low-precision-div'
     Enable or disable the division approximation.  This option only has
     an effect if '-ffast-math' or '-funsafe-math-optimizations' is used
     as well.  Enabling this reduces precision of division results to
     about 16 bits for single precision and to 32 bits for double
     precision.

'-mtrack-speculation'
'-mno-track-speculation'
     Enable or disable generation of additional code to track
     speculative execution through conditional branches.  The tracking
     state can then be used by the compiler when expanding calls to
     '__builtin_speculation_safe_copy' to permit a more efficient code
     sequence to be generated.

'-march=NAME'
     Specify the name of the target architecture and, optionally, one or
     more feature modifiers.  This option has the form
     '-march=ARCH{+[no]FEATURE}*'.

     The permissible values for ARCH are 'armv8-a', 'armv8.1-a',
     'armv8.2-a', 'armv8.3-a', 'armv8.4-a', 'armv8.5-a' or NATIVE.

     The value 'armv8.5-a' implies 'armv8.4-a' and enables compiler
     support for the ARMv8.5-A architecture extensions.

     The value 'armv8.4-a' implies 'armv8.3-a' and enables compiler
     support for the ARMv8.4-A architecture extensions.

     The value 'armv8.3-a' implies 'armv8.2-a' and enables compiler
     support for the ARMv8.3-A architecture extensions.

     The value 'armv8.2-a' implies 'armv8.1-a' and enables compiler
     support for the ARMv8.2-A architecture extensions.

     The value 'armv8.1-a' implies 'armv8-a' and enables compiler
     support for the ARMv8.1-A architecture extension.  In particular,
     it enables the '+crc', '+lse', and '+rdma' features.

     The value 'native' is available on native AArch64 GNU/Linux and
     causes the compiler to pick the architecture of the host system.
     This option has no effect if the compiler is unable to recognize
     the architecture of the host system,

     The permissible values for FEATURE are listed in the sub-section on
     *note '-march' and '-mcpu' Feature Modifiers:
     aarch64-feature-modifiers.  Where conflicting feature modifiers are
     specified, the right-most feature is used.

     GCC uses NAME to determine what kind of instructions it can emit
     when generating assembly code.  If '-march' is specified without
     either of '-mtune' or '-mcpu' also being specified, the code is
     tuned to perform well across a range of target processors
     implementing the target architecture.

'-mtune=NAME'
     Specify the name of the target processor for which GCC should tune
     the performance of the code.  Permissible values for this option
     are: 'generic', 'cortex-a35', 'cortex-a53', 'cortex-a55',
     'cortex-a57', 'cortex-a72', 'cortex-a73', 'cortex-a75',
     'cortex-a76', 'ares', 'exynos-m1', 'emag', 'falkor',
     'neoverse-e1','neoverse-n1','qdf24xx', 'saphira', 'phecda',
     'xgene1', 'vulcan', 'octeontx', 'octeontx81', 'octeontx83',
     'thunderx', 'thunderxt88', 'thunderxt88p1', 'thunderxt81',
     'tsv110', 'thunderxt83', 'thunderx2t99', 'cortex-a57.cortex-a53',
     'cortex-a72.cortex-a53', 'cortex-a73.cortex-a35',
     'cortex-a73.cortex-a53', 'cortex-a75.cortex-a55',
     'cortex-a76.cortex-a55' 'native'.

     The values 'cortex-a57.cortex-a53', 'cortex-a72.cortex-a53',
     'cortex-a73.cortex-a35', 'cortex-a73.cortex-a53',
     'cortex-a75.cortex-a55', 'cortex-a76.cortex-a55' specify that GCC
     should tune for a big.LITTLE system.

     Additionally on native AArch64 GNU/Linux systems the value 'native'
     tunes performance to the host system.  This option has no effect if
     the compiler is unable to recognize the processor of the host
     system.

     Where none of '-mtune=', '-mcpu=' or '-march=' are specified, the
     code is tuned to perform well across a range of target processors.

     This option cannot be suffixed by feature modifiers.

'-mcpu=NAME'
     Specify the name of the target processor, optionally suffixed by
     one or more feature modifiers.  This option has the form
     '-mcpu=CPU{+[no]FEATURE}*', where the permissible values for CPU
     are the same as those available for '-mtune'.  The permissible
     values for FEATURE are documented in the sub-section on *note
     '-march' and '-mcpu' Feature Modifiers: aarch64-feature-modifiers.
     Where conflicting feature modifiers are specified, the right-most
     feature is used.

     GCC uses NAME to determine what kind of instructions it can emit
     when generating assembly code (as if by '-march') and to determine
     the target processor for which to tune for performance (as if by
     '-mtune').  Where this option is used in conjunction with '-march'
     or '-mtune', those options take precedence over the appropriate
     part of this option.

'-moverride=STRING'
     Override tuning decisions made by the back-end in response to a
     '-mtune=' switch.  The syntax, semantics, and accepted values for
     STRING in this option are not guaranteed to be consistent across
     releases.

     This option is only intended to be useful when developing GCC.

'-mverbose-cost-dump'
     Enable verbose cost model dumping in the debug dump files.  This
     option is provided for use in debugging the compiler.

'-mpc-relative-literal-loads'
'-mno-pc-relative-literal-loads'
     Enable or disable PC-relative literal loads.  With this option
     literal pools are accessed using a single instruction and emitted
     after each function.  This limits the maximum size of functions to
     1MB. This is enabled by default for '-mcmodel=tiny'.

'-msign-return-address=SCOPE'
     Select the function scope on which return address signing will be
     applied.  Permissible values are 'none', which disables return
     address signing, 'non-leaf', which enables pointer signing for
     functions which are not leaf functions, and 'all', which enables
     pointer signing for all functions.  The default value is 'none'.
     This option has been deprecated by -mbranch-protection.

'-mbranch-protection=NONE|STANDARD|PAC-RET[+LEAF]'
     Select the branch protection features to use.  'none' is the
     default and turns off all types of branch protection.  'standard'
     turns on all types of branch protection features.  If a feature has
     additional tuning options, then 'standard' sets it to its standard
     level.  'pac-ret[+LEAF]' turns on return address signing to its
     standard level: signing functions that save the return address to
     memory (non-leaf functions will practically always do this) using
     the a-key.  The optional argument 'leaf' can be used to extend the
     signing to include leaf functions.  'bti' turns on branch target
     identification mechanism.

'-msve-vector-bits=BITS'
     Specify the number of bits in an SVE vector register.  This option
     only has an effect when SVE is enabled.

     GCC supports two forms of SVE code generation: "vector-length
     agnostic" output that works with any size of vector register and
     "vector-length specific" output that allows GCC to make assumptions
     about the vector length when it is useful for optimization reasons.
     The possible values of 'bits' are: 'scalable', '128', '256', '512',
     '1024' and '2048'.  Specifying 'scalable' selects vector-length
     agnostic output.  At present '-msve-vector-bits=128' also generates
     vector-length agnostic output.  All other values generate
     vector-length specific code.  The behavior of these values may
     change in future releases and no value except 'scalable' should be
     relied on for producing code that is portable across different
     hardware SVE vector lengths.

     The default is '-msve-vector-bits=scalable', which produces
     vector-length agnostic code.

3.18.1.1 '-march' and '-mcpu' Feature Modifiers
...............................................

Feature modifiers used with '-march' and '-mcpu' can be any of the
following and their inverses 'noFEATURE':

'crc'
     Enable CRC extension.  This is on by default for
     '-march=armv8.1-a'.
'crypto'
     Enable Crypto extension.  This also enables Advanced SIMD and
     floating-point instructions.
'fp'
     Enable floating-point instructions.  This is on by default for all
     possible values for options '-march' and '-mcpu'.
'simd'
     Enable Advanced SIMD instructions.  This also enables
     floating-point instructions.  This is on by default for all
     possible values for options '-march' and '-mcpu'.
'sve'
     Enable Scalable Vector Extension instructions.  This also enables
     Advanced SIMD and floating-point instructions.
'lse'
     Enable Large System Extension instructions.  This is on by default
     for '-march=armv8.1-a'.
'rdma'
     Enable Round Double Multiply Accumulate instructions.  This is on
     by default for '-march=armv8.1-a'.
'fp16'
     Enable FP16 extension.  This also enables floating-point
     instructions.
'fp16fml'
     Enable FP16 fmla extension.  This also enables FP16 extensions and
     floating-point instructions.  This option is enabled by default for
     '-march=armv8.4-a'.  Use of this option with architectures prior to
     Armv8.2-A is not supported.

'rcpc'
     Enable the RcPc extension.  This does not change code generation
     from GCC, but is passed on to the assembler, enabling inline asm
     statements to use instructions from the RcPc extension.
'dotprod'
     Enable the Dot Product extension.  This also enables Advanced SIMD
     instructions.
'aes'
     Enable the Armv8-a aes and pmull crypto extension.  This also
     enables Advanced SIMD instructions.
'sha2'
     Enable the Armv8-a sha2 crypto extension.  This also enables
     Advanced SIMD instructions.
'sha3'
     Enable the sha512 and sha3 crypto extension.  This also enables
     Advanced SIMD instructions.  Use of this option with architectures
     prior to Armv8.2-A is not supported.
'sm4'
     Enable the sm3 and sm4 crypto extension.  This also enables
     Advanced SIMD instructions.  Use of this option with architectures
     prior to Armv8.2-A is not supported.
'profile'
     Enable the Statistical Profiling extension.  This option is only to
     enable the extension at the assembler level and does not affect
     code generation.
'rng'
     Enable the Armv8.5-a Random Number instructions.  This option is
     only to enable the extension at the assembler level and does not
     affect code generation.
'memtag'
     Enable the Armv8.5-a Memory Tagging Extensions.  This option is
     only to enable the extension at the assembler level and does not
     affect code generation.
'sb'
     Enable the Armv8-a Speculation Barrier instruction.  This option is
     only to enable the extension at the assembler level and does not
     affect code generation.  This option is enabled by default for
     '-march=armv8.5-a'.
'ssbs'
     Enable the Armv8-a Speculative Store Bypass Safe instruction.  This
     option is only to enable the extension at the assembler level and
     does not affect code generation.  This option is enabled by default
     for '-march=armv8.5-a'.
'predres'
     Enable the Armv8-a Execution and Data Prediction Restriction
     instructions.  This option is only to enable the extension at the
     assembler level and does not affect code generation.  This option
     is enabled by default for '-march=armv8.5-a'.

 Feature 'crypto' implies 'aes', 'sha2', and 'simd', which implies 'fp'.
Conversely, 'nofp' implies 'nosimd', which implies 'nocrypto', 'noaes'
and 'nosha2'.

File: gcc.info,  Node: Adapteva Epiphany Options,  Next: AMD GCN Options,  Prev: AArch64 Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.2 Adapteva Epiphany Options
--------------------------------

These '-m' options are defined for Adapteva Epiphany:

'-mhalf-reg-file'
     Don't allocate any register in the range 'r32'...'r63'.  That
     allows code to run on hardware variants that lack these registers.

'-mprefer-short-insn-regs'
     Preferentially allocate registers that allow short instruction
     generation.  This can result in increased instruction count, so
     this may either reduce or increase overall code size.

'-mbranch-cost=NUM'
     Set the cost of branches to roughly NUM "simple" instructions.
     This cost is only a heuristic and is not guaranteed to produce
     consistent results across releases.

'-mcmove'
     Enable the generation of conditional moves.

'-mnops=NUM'
     Emit NUM NOPs before every other generated instruction.

'-mno-soft-cmpsf'
     For single-precision floating-point comparisons, emit an 'fsub'
     instruction and test the flags.  This is faster than a software
     comparison, but can get incorrect results in the presence of NaNs,
     or when two different small numbers are compared such that their
     difference is calculated as zero.  The default is '-msoft-cmpsf',
     which uses slower, but IEEE-compliant, software comparisons.

'-mstack-offset=NUM'
     Set the offset between the top of the stack and the stack pointer.
     E.g., a value of 8 means that the eight bytes in the range
     'sp+0...sp+7' can be used by leaf functions without stack
     allocation.  Values other than '8' or '16' are untested and
     unlikely to work.  Note also that this option changes the ABI;
     compiling a program with a different stack offset than the
     libraries have been compiled with generally does not work.  This
     option can be useful if you want to evaluate if a different stack
     offset would give you better code, but to actually use a different
     stack offset to build working programs, it is recommended to
     configure the toolchain with the appropriate
     '--with-stack-offset=NUM' option.

'-mno-round-nearest'
     Make the scheduler assume that the rounding mode has been set to
     truncating.  The default is '-mround-nearest'.

'-mlong-calls'
     If not otherwise specified by an attribute, assume all calls might
     be beyond the offset range of the 'b' / 'bl' instructions, and
     therefore load the function address into a register before
     performing a (otherwise direct) call.  This is the default.

'-mshort-calls'
     If not otherwise specified by an attribute, assume all direct calls
     are in the range of the 'b' / 'bl' instructions, so use these
     instructions for direct calls.  The default is '-mlong-calls'.

'-msmall16'
     Assume addresses can be loaded as 16-bit unsigned values.  This
     does not apply to function addresses for which '-mlong-calls'
     semantics are in effect.

'-mfp-mode=MODE'
     Set the prevailing mode of the floating-point unit.  This
     determines the floating-point mode that is provided and expected at
     function call and return time.  Making this mode match the mode you
     predominantly need at function start can make your programs smaller
     and faster by avoiding unnecessary mode switches.

     MODE can be set to one the following values:

     'caller'
          Any mode at function entry is valid, and retained or restored
          when the function returns, and when it calls other functions.
          This mode is useful for compiling libraries or other
          compilation units you might want to incorporate into different
          programs with different prevailing FPU modes, and the
          convenience of being able to use a single object file
          outweighs the size and speed overhead for any extra mode
          switching that might be needed, compared with what would be
          needed with a more specific choice of prevailing FPU mode.

     'truncate'
          This is the mode used for floating-point calculations with
          truncating (i.e. round towards zero) rounding mode.  That
          includes conversion from floating point to integer.

     'round-nearest'
          This is the mode used for floating-point calculations with
          round-to-nearest-or-even rounding mode.

     'int'
          This is the mode used to perform integer calculations in the
          FPU, e.g. integer multiply, or integer
          multiply-and-accumulate.

     The default is '-mfp-mode=caller'

'-mno-split-lohi'
'-mno-postinc'
'-mno-postmodify'
     Code generation tweaks that disable, respectively, splitting of
     32-bit loads, generation of post-increment addresses, and
     generation of post-modify addresses.  The defaults are
     'msplit-lohi', '-mpost-inc', and '-mpost-modify'.

'-mnovect-double'
     Change the preferred SIMD mode to SImode.  The default is
     '-mvect-double', which uses DImode as preferred SIMD mode.

'-max-vect-align=NUM'
     The maximum alignment for SIMD vector mode types.  NUM may be 4 or
     8.  The default is 8.  Note that this is an ABI change, even though
     many library function interfaces are unaffected if they don't use
     SIMD vector modes in places that affect size and/or alignment of
     relevant types.

'-msplit-vecmove-early'
     Split vector moves into single word moves before reload.  In theory
     this can give better register allocation, but so far the reverse
     seems to be generally the case.

'-m1reg-REG'
     Specify a register to hold the constant -1, which makes loading
     small negative constants and certain bitmasks faster.  Allowable
     values for REG are 'r43' and 'r63', which specify use of that
     register as a fixed register, and 'none', which means that no
     register is used for this purpose.  The default is '-m1reg-none'.

File: gcc.info,  Node: AMD GCN Options,  Next: ARC Options,  Prev: Adapteva Epiphany Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.3 AMD GCN Options
----------------------

These options are defined specifically for the AMD GCN port.

'-march=GPU'
'-mtune=GPU'
     Set architecture type or tuning for GPU.  Supported values for GPU
     are

     'fiji'
          Compile for GCN3 Fiji devices (gfx803).

     'gfx900'
          Compile for GCN5 Vega 10 devices (gfx900).

'-mstack-size=BYTES'
     Specify how many BYTES of stack space will be requested for each
     GPU thread (wave-front).  Beware that there may be many threads and
     limited memory available.  The size of the stack allocation may
     also have an impact on run-time performance.  The default is 32KB
     when using OpenACC or OpenMP, and 1MB otherwise.

File: gcc.info,  Node: ARC Options,  Next: ARM Options,  Prev: AMD GCN Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.4 ARC Options
------------------

The following options control the architecture variant for which code is
being compiled:

'-mbarrel-shifter'
     Generate instructions supported by barrel shifter.  This is the
     default unless '-mcpu=ARC601' or '-mcpu=ARCEM' is in effect.

'-mjli-always'
     Force to call a function using jli_s instruction.  This option is
     valid only for ARCv2 architecture.

'-mcpu=CPU'
     Set architecture type, register usage, and instruction scheduling
     parameters for CPU.  There are also shortcut alias options
     available for backward compatibility and convenience.  Supported
     values for CPU are

     'arc600'
          Compile for ARC600.  Aliases: '-mA6', '-mARC600'.

     'arc601'
          Compile for ARC601.  Alias: '-mARC601'.

     'arc700'
          Compile for ARC700.  Aliases: '-mA7', '-mARC700'.  This is the
          default when configured with '--with-cpu=arc700'.

     'arcem'
          Compile for ARC EM.

     'archs'
          Compile for ARC HS.

     'em'
          Compile for ARC EM CPU with no hardware extensions.

     'em4'
          Compile for ARC EM4 CPU.

     'em4_dmips'
          Compile for ARC EM4 DMIPS CPU.

     'em4_fpus'
          Compile for ARC EM4 DMIPS CPU with the single-precision
          floating-point extension.

     'em4_fpuda'
          Compile for ARC EM4 DMIPS CPU with single-precision
          floating-point and double assist instructions.

     'hs'
          Compile for ARC HS CPU with no hardware extensions except the
          atomic instructions.

     'hs34'
          Compile for ARC HS34 CPU.

     'hs38'
          Compile for ARC HS38 CPU.

     'hs38_linux'
          Compile for ARC HS38 CPU with all hardware extensions on.

     'arc600_norm'
          Compile for ARC 600 CPU with 'norm' instructions enabled.

     'arc600_mul32x16'
          Compile for ARC 600 CPU with 'norm' and 32x16-bit multiply
          instructions enabled.

     'arc600_mul64'
          Compile for ARC 600 CPU with 'norm' and 'mul64'-family
          instructions enabled.

     'arc601_norm'
          Compile for ARC 601 CPU with 'norm' instructions enabled.

     'arc601_mul32x16'
          Compile for ARC 601 CPU with 'norm' and 32x16-bit multiply
          instructions enabled.

     'arc601_mul64'
          Compile for ARC 601 CPU with 'norm' and 'mul64'-family
          instructions enabled.

     'nps400'
          Compile for ARC 700 on NPS400 chip.

     'em_mini'
          Compile for ARC EM minimalist configuration featuring reduced
          register set.

'-mdpfp'
'-mdpfp-compact'
     Generate double-precision FPX instructions, tuned for the compact
     implementation.

'-mdpfp-fast'
     Generate double-precision FPX instructions, tuned for the fast
     implementation.

'-mno-dpfp-lrsr'
     Disable 'lr' and 'sr' instructions from using FPX extension aux
     registers.

'-mea'
     Generate extended arithmetic instructions.  Currently only 'divaw',
     'adds', 'subs', and 'sat16' are supported.  This is always enabled
     for '-mcpu=ARC700'.

'-mno-mpy'
     Do not generate 'mpy'-family instructions for ARC700.  This option
     is deprecated.

'-mmul32x16'
     Generate 32x16-bit multiply and multiply-accumulate instructions.

'-mmul64'
     Generate 'mul64' and 'mulu64' instructions.  Only valid for
     '-mcpu=ARC600'.

'-mnorm'
     Generate 'norm' instructions.  This is the default if
     '-mcpu=ARC700' is in effect.

'-mspfp'
'-mspfp-compact'
     Generate single-precision FPX instructions, tuned for the compact
     implementation.

'-mspfp-fast'
     Generate single-precision FPX instructions, tuned for the fast
     implementation.

'-msimd'
     Enable generation of ARC SIMD instructions via target-specific
     builtins.  Only valid for '-mcpu=ARC700'.

'-msoft-float'
     This option ignored; it is provided for compatibility purposes
     only.  Software floating-point code is emitted by default, and this
     default can overridden by FPX options; '-mspfp', '-mspfp-compact',
     or '-mspfp-fast' for single precision, and '-mdpfp',
     '-mdpfp-compact', or '-mdpfp-fast' for double precision.

'-mswap'
     Generate 'swap' instructions.

'-matomic'
     This enables use of the locked load/store conditional extension to
     implement atomic memory built-in functions.  Not available for ARC
     6xx or ARC EM cores.

'-mdiv-rem'
     Enable 'div' and 'rem' instructions for ARCv2 cores.

'-mcode-density'
     Enable code density instructions for ARC EM. This option is on by
     default for ARC HS.

'-mll64'
     Enable double load/store operations for ARC HS cores.

'-mtp-regno=REGNO'
     Specify thread pointer register number.

'-mmpy-option=MULTO'
     Compile ARCv2 code with a multiplier design option.  You can
     specify the option using either a string or numeric value for
     MULTO.  'wlh1' is the default value.  The recognized values are:

     '0'
     'none'
          No multiplier available.

     '1'
     'w'
          16x16 multiplier, fully pipelined.  The following instructions
          are enabled: 'mpyw' and 'mpyuw'.

     '2'
     'wlh1'
          32x32 multiplier, fully pipelined (1 stage).  The following
          instructions are additionally enabled: 'mpy', 'mpyu', 'mpym',
          'mpymu', and 'mpy_s'.

     '3'
     'wlh2'
          32x32 multiplier, fully pipelined (2 stages).  The following
          instructions are additionally enabled: 'mpy', 'mpyu', 'mpym',
          'mpymu', and 'mpy_s'.

     '4'
     'wlh3'
          Two 16x16 multipliers, blocking, sequential.  The following
          instructions are additionally enabled: 'mpy', 'mpyu', 'mpym',
          'mpymu', and 'mpy_s'.

     '5'
     'wlh4'
          One 16x16 multiplier, blocking, sequential.  The following
          instructions are additionally enabled: 'mpy', 'mpyu', 'mpym',
          'mpymu', and 'mpy_s'.

     '6'
     'wlh5'
          One 32x4 multiplier, blocking, sequential.  The following
          instructions are additionally enabled: 'mpy', 'mpyu', 'mpym',
          'mpymu', and 'mpy_s'.

     '7'
     'plus_dmpy'
          ARC HS SIMD support.

     '8'
     'plus_macd'
          ARC HS SIMD support.

     '9'
     'plus_qmacw'
          ARC HS SIMD support.

     This option is only available for ARCv2 cores.

'-mfpu=FPU'
     Enables support for specific floating-point hardware extensions for
     ARCv2 cores.  Supported values for FPU are:

     'fpus'
          Enables support for single-precision floating-point hardware
          extensions.

     'fpud'
          Enables support for double-precision floating-point hardware
          extensions.  The single-precision floating-point extension is
          also enabled.  Not available for ARC EM.

     'fpuda'
          Enables support for double-precision floating-point hardware
          extensions using double-precision assist instructions.  The
          single-precision floating-point extension is also enabled.
          This option is only available for ARC EM.

     'fpuda_div'
          Enables support for double-precision floating-point hardware
          extensions using double-precision assist instructions.  The
          single-precision floating-point, square-root, and divide
          extensions are also enabled.  This option is only available
          for ARC EM.

     'fpuda_fma'
          Enables support for double-precision floating-point hardware
          extensions using double-precision assist instructions.  The
          single-precision floating-point and fused multiply and add
          hardware extensions are also enabled.  This option is only
          available for ARC EM.

     'fpuda_all'
          Enables support for double-precision floating-point hardware
          extensions using double-precision assist instructions.  All
          single-precision floating-point hardware extensions are also
          enabled.  This option is only available for ARC EM.

     'fpus_div'
          Enables support for single-precision floating-point,
          square-root and divide hardware extensions.

     'fpud_div'
          Enables support for double-precision floating-point,
          square-root and divide hardware extensions.  This option
          includes option 'fpus_div'.  Not available for ARC EM.

     'fpus_fma'
          Enables support for single-precision floating-point and fused
          multiply and add hardware extensions.

     'fpud_fma'
          Enables support for double-precision floating-point and fused
          multiply and add hardware extensions.  This option includes
          option 'fpus_fma'.  Not available for ARC EM.

     'fpus_all'
          Enables support for all single-precision floating-point
          hardware extensions.

     'fpud_all'
          Enables support for all single- and double-precision
          floating-point hardware extensions.  Not available for ARC EM.

'-mirq-ctrl-saved=REGISTER-RANGE, BLINK, LP_COUNT'
     Specifies general-purposes registers that the processor
     automatically saves/restores on interrupt entry and exit.
     REGISTER-RANGE is specified as two registers separated by a dash.
     The register range always starts with 'r0', the upper limit is 'fp'
     register.  BLINK and LP_COUNT are optional.  This option is only
     valid for ARC EM and ARC HS cores.

'-mrgf-banked-regs=NUMBER'
     Specifies the number of registers replicated in second register
     bank on entry to fast interrupt.  Fast interrupts are interrupts
     with the highest priority level P0.  These interrupts save only PC
     and STATUS32 registers to avoid memory transactions during
     interrupt entry and exit sequences.  Use this option when you are
     using fast interrupts in an ARC V2 family processor.  Permitted
     values are 4, 8, 16, and 32.

'-mlpc-width=WIDTH'
     Specify the width of the 'lp_count' register.  Valid values for
     WIDTH are 8, 16, 20, 24, 28 and 32 bits.  The default width is
     fixed to 32 bits.  If the width is less than 32, the compiler does
     not attempt to transform loops in your program to use the
     zero-delay loop mechanism unless it is known that the 'lp_count'
     register can hold the required loop-counter value.  Depending on
     the width specified, the compiler and run-time library might
     continue to use the loop mechanism for various needs.  This option
     defines macro '__ARC_LPC_WIDTH__' with the value of WIDTH.

'-mrf16'
     This option instructs the compiler to generate code for a 16-entry
     register file.  This option defines the '__ARC_RF16__' preprocessor
     macro.

'-mbranch-index'
     Enable use of 'bi' or 'bih' instructions to implement jump tables.

 The following options are passed through to the assembler, and also
define preprocessor macro symbols.

'-mdsp-packa'
     Passed down to the assembler to enable the DSP Pack A extensions.
     Also sets the preprocessor symbol '__Xdsp_packa'.  This option is
     deprecated.

'-mdvbf'
     Passed down to the assembler to enable the dual Viterbi butterfly
     extension.  Also sets the preprocessor symbol '__Xdvbf'.  This
     option is deprecated.

'-mlock'
     Passed down to the assembler to enable the locked load/store
     conditional extension.  Also sets the preprocessor symbol
     '__Xlock'.

'-mmac-d16'
     Passed down to the assembler.  Also sets the preprocessor symbol
     '__Xxmac_d16'.  This option is deprecated.

'-mmac-24'
     Passed down to the assembler.  Also sets the preprocessor symbol
     '__Xxmac_24'.  This option is deprecated.

'-mrtsc'
     Passed down to the assembler to enable the 64-bit time-stamp
     counter extension instruction.  Also sets the preprocessor symbol
     '__Xrtsc'.  This option is deprecated.

'-mswape'
     Passed down to the assembler to enable the swap byte ordering
     extension instruction.  Also sets the preprocessor symbol
     '__Xswape'.

'-mtelephony'
     Passed down to the assembler to enable dual- and single-operand
     instructions for telephony.  Also sets the preprocessor symbol
     '__Xtelephony'.  This option is deprecated.

'-mxy'
     Passed down to the assembler to enable the XY memory extension.
     Also sets the preprocessor symbol '__Xxy'.

 The following options control how the assembly code is annotated:

'-misize'
     Annotate assembler instructions with estimated addresses.

'-mannotate-align'
     Explain what alignment considerations lead to the decision to make
     an instruction short or long.

 The following options are passed through to the linker:

'-marclinux'
     Passed through to the linker, to specify use of the 'arclinux'
     emulation.  This option is enabled by default in tool chains built
     for 'arc-linux-uclibc' and 'arceb-linux-uclibc' targets when
     profiling is not requested.

'-marclinux_prof'
     Passed through to the linker, to specify use of the 'arclinux_prof'
     emulation.  This option is enabled by default in tool chains built
     for 'arc-linux-uclibc' and 'arceb-linux-uclibc' targets when
     profiling is requested.

 The following options control the semantics of generated code:

'-mlong-calls'
     Generate calls as register indirect calls, thus providing access to
     the full 32-bit address range.

'-mmedium-calls'
     Don't use less than 25-bit addressing range for calls, which is the
     offset available for an unconditional branch-and-link instruction.
     Conditional execution of function calls is suppressed, to allow use
     of the 25-bit range, rather than the 21-bit range with conditional
     branch-and-link.  This is the default for tool chains built for
     'arc-linux-uclibc' and 'arceb-linux-uclibc' targets.

'-G NUM'
     Put definitions of externally-visible data in a small data section
     if that data is no bigger than NUM bytes.  The default value of NUM
     is 4 for any ARC configuration, or 8 when we have double load/store
     operations.

'-mno-sdata'
     Do not generate sdata references.  This is the default for tool
     chains built for 'arc-linux-uclibc' and 'arceb-linux-uclibc'
     targets.

'-mvolatile-cache'
     Use ordinarily cached memory accesses for volatile references.
     This is the default.

'-mno-volatile-cache'
     Enable cache bypass for volatile references.

 The following options fine tune code generation:
'-malign-call'
     Do alignment optimizations for call instructions.

'-mauto-modify-reg'
     Enable the use of pre/post modify with register displacement.

'-mbbit-peephole'
     Enable bbit peephole2.

'-mno-brcc'
     This option disables a target-specific pass in 'arc_reorg' to
     generate compare-and-branch ('brCC') instructions.  It has no
     effect on generation of these instructions driven by the combiner
     pass.

'-mcase-vector-pcrel'
     Use PC-relative switch case tables to enable case table shortening.
     This is the default for '-Os'.

'-mcompact-casesi'
     Enable compact 'casesi' pattern.  This is the default for '-Os',
     and only available for ARCv1 cores.  This option is deprecated.

'-mno-cond-exec'
     Disable the ARCompact-specific pass to generate conditional
     execution instructions.

     Due to delay slot scheduling and interactions between operand
     numbers, literal sizes, instruction lengths, and the support for
     conditional execution, the target-independent pass to generate
     conditional execution is often lacking, so the ARC port has kept a
     special pass around that tries to find more conditional execution
     generation opportunities after register allocation, branch
     shortening, and delay slot scheduling have been done.  This pass
     generally, but not always, improves performance and code size, at
     the cost of extra compilation time, which is why there is an option
     to switch it off.  If you have a problem with call instructions
     exceeding their allowable offset range because they are
     conditionalized, you should consider using '-mmedium-calls'
     instead.

'-mearly-cbranchsi'
     Enable pre-reload use of the 'cbranchsi' pattern.

'-mexpand-adddi'
     Expand 'adddi3' and 'subdi3' at RTL generation time into 'add.f',
     'adc' etc.  This option is deprecated.

'-mindexed-loads'
     Enable the use of indexed loads.  This can be problematic because
     some optimizers then assume that indexed stores exist, which is not
     the case.

'-mlra'
     Enable Local Register Allocation.  This is still experimental for
     ARC, so by default the compiler uses standard reload (i.e.
     '-mno-lra').

'-mlra-priority-none'
     Don't indicate any priority for target registers.

'-mlra-priority-compact'
     Indicate target register priority for r0..r3 / r12..r15.

'-mlra-priority-noncompact'
     Reduce target register priority for r0..r3 / r12..r15.

'-mmillicode'
     When optimizing for size (using '-Os'), prologues and epilogues
     that have to save or restore a large number of registers are often
     shortened by using call to a special function in libgcc; this is
     referred to as a _millicode_ call.  As these calls can pose
     performance issues, and/or cause linking issues when linking in a
     nonstandard way, this option is provided to turn on or off
     millicode call generation.

'-mcode-density-frame'
     This option enable the compiler to emit 'enter' and 'leave'
     instructions.  These instructions are only valid for CPUs with
     code-density feature.

'-mmixed-code'
     Tweak register allocation to help 16-bit instruction generation.
     This generally has the effect of decreasing the average instruction
     size while increasing the instruction count.

'-mq-class'
     Enable 'q' instruction alternatives.  This is the default for
     '-Os'.

'-mRcq'
     Enable 'Rcq' constraint handling.  Most short code generation
     depends on this.  This is the default.

'-mRcw'
     Enable 'Rcw' constraint handling.  Most ccfsm condexec mostly
     depends on this.  This is the default.

'-msize-level=LEVEL'
     Fine-tune size optimization with regards to instruction lengths and
     alignment.  The recognized values for LEVEL are:
     '0'
          No size optimization.  This level is deprecated and treated
          like '1'.

     '1'
          Short instructions are used opportunistically.

     '2'
          In addition, alignment of loops and of code after barriers are
          dropped.

     '3'
          In addition, optional data alignment is dropped, and the
          option 'Os' is enabled.

     This defaults to '3' when '-Os' is in effect.  Otherwise, the
     behavior when this is not set is equivalent to level '1'.

'-mtune=CPU'
     Set instruction scheduling parameters for CPU, overriding any
     implied by '-mcpu='.

     Supported values for CPU are

     'ARC600'
          Tune for ARC600 CPU.

     'ARC601'
          Tune for ARC601 CPU.

     'ARC700'
          Tune for ARC700 CPU with standard multiplier block.

     'ARC700-xmac'
          Tune for ARC700 CPU with XMAC block.

     'ARC725D'
          Tune for ARC725D CPU.

     'ARC750D'
          Tune for ARC750D CPU.

'-mmultcost=NUM'
     Cost to assume for a multiply instruction, with '4' being equal to
     a normal instruction.

'-munalign-prob-threshold=PROBABILITY'
     Set probability threshold for unaligning branches.  When tuning for
     'ARC700' and optimizing for speed, branches without filled delay
     slot are preferably emitted unaligned and long, unless profiling
     indicates that the probability for the branch to be taken is below
     PROBABILITY.  *Note Cross-profiling::.  The default is
     (REG_BR_PROB_BASE/2), i.e. 5000.

 The following options are maintained for backward compatibility, but
are now deprecated and will be removed in a future release:

'-margonaut'
     Obsolete FPX.

'-mbig-endian'
'-EB'
     Compile code for big-endian targets.  Use of these options is now
     deprecated.  Big-endian code is supported by configuring GCC to
     build 'arceb-elf32' and 'arceb-linux-uclibc' targets, for which big
     endian is the default.

'-mlittle-endian'
'-EL'
     Compile code for little-endian targets.  Use of these options is
     now deprecated.  Little-endian code is supported by configuring GCC
     to build 'arc-elf32' and 'arc-linux-uclibc' targets, for which
     little endian is the default.

'-mbarrel_shifter'
     Replaced by '-mbarrel-shifter'.

'-mdpfp_compact'
     Replaced by '-mdpfp-compact'.

'-mdpfp_fast'
     Replaced by '-mdpfp-fast'.

'-mdsp_packa'
     Replaced by '-mdsp-packa'.

'-mEA'
     Replaced by '-mea'.

'-mmac_24'
     Replaced by '-mmac-24'.

'-mmac_d16'
     Replaced by '-mmac-d16'.

'-mspfp_compact'
     Replaced by '-mspfp-compact'.

'-mspfp_fast'
     Replaced by '-mspfp-fast'.

'-mtune=CPU'
     Values 'arc600', 'arc601', 'arc700' and 'arc700-xmac' for CPU are
     replaced by 'ARC600', 'ARC601', 'ARC700' and 'ARC700-xmac'
     respectively.

'-multcost=NUM'
     Replaced by '-mmultcost'.

File: gcc.info,  Node: ARM Options,  Next: AVR Options,  Prev: ARC Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.5 ARM Options
------------------

These '-m' options are defined for the ARM port:

'-mabi=NAME'
     Generate code for the specified ABI.  Permissible values are:
     'apcs-gnu', 'atpcs', 'aapcs', 'aapcs-linux' and 'iwmmxt'.

'-mapcs-frame'
     Generate a stack frame that is compliant with the ARM Procedure
     Call Standard for all functions, even if this is not strictly
     necessary for correct execution of the code.  Specifying
     '-fomit-frame-pointer' with this option causes the stack frames not
     to be generated for leaf functions.  The default is
     '-mno-apcs-frame'.  This option is deprecated.

'-mapcs'
     This is a synonym for '-mapcs-frame' and is deprecated.

'-mthumb-interwork'
     Generate code that supports calling between the ARM and Thumb
     instruction sets.  Without this option, on pre-v5 architectures,
     the two instruction sets cannot be reliably used inside one
     program.  The default is '-mno-thumb-interwork', since slightly
     larger code is generated when '-mthumb-interwork' is specified.  In
     AAPCS configurations this option is meaningless.

'-mno-sched-prolog'
     Prevent the reordering of instructions in the function prologue, or
     the merging of those instruction with the instructions in the
     function's body.  This means that all functions start with a
     recognizable set of instructions (or in fact one of a choice from a
     small set of different function prologues), and this information
     can be used to locate the start of functions inside an executable
     piece of code.  The default is '-msched-prolog'.

'-mfloat-abi=NAME'
     Specifies which floating-point ABI to use.  Permissible values are:
     'soft', 'softfp' and 'hard'.

     Specifying 'soft' causes GCC to generate output containing library
     calls for floating-point operations.  'softfp' allows the
     generation of code using hardware floating-point instructions, but
     still uses the soft-float calling conventions.  'hard' allows
     generation of floating-point instructions and uses FPU-specific
     calling conventions.

     The default depends on the specific target configuration.  Note
     that the hard-float and soft-float ABIs are not link-compatible;
     you must compile your entire program with the same ABI, and link
     with a compatible set of libraries.

'-mlittle-endian'
     Generate code for a processor running in little-endian mode.  This
     is the default for all standard configurations.

'-mbig-endian'
     Generate code for a processor running in big-endian mode; the
     default is to compile code for a little-endian processor.

'-mbe8'
'-mbe32'
     When linking a big-endian image select between BE8 and BE32
     formats.  The option has no effect for little-endian images and is
     ignored.  The default is dependent on the selected target
     architecture.  For ARMv6 and later architectures the default is
     BE8, for older architectures the default is BE32.  BE32 format has
     been deprecated by ARM.

'-march=NAME[+extension...]'
     This specifies the name of the target ARM architecture.  GCC uses
     this name to determine what kind of instructions it can emit when
     generating assembly code.  This option can be used in conjunction
     with or instead of the '-mcpu=' option.

     Permissible names are: 'armv4t', 'armv5t', 'armv5te', 'armv6',
     'armv6j', 'armv6k', 'armv6kz', 'armv6t2', 'armv6z', 'armv6zk',
     'armv7', 'armv7-a', 'armv7ve', 'armv8-a', 'armv8.1-a', 'armv8.2-a',
     'armv8.3-a', 'armv8.4-a', 'armv8.5-a', 'armv7-r', 'armv8-r',
     'armv6-m', 'armv6s-m', 'armv7-m', 'armv7e-m', 'armv8-m.base',
     'armv8-m.main', 'iwmmxt' and 'iwmmxt2'.

     Additionally, the following architectures, which lack support for
     the Thumb execution state, are recognized but support is
     deprecated: 'armv4'.

     Many of the architectures support extensions.  These can be added
     by appending '+EXTENSION' to the architecture name.  Extension
     options are processed in order and capabilities accumulate.  An
     extension will also enable any necessary base extensions upon which
     it depends.  For example, the '+crypto' extension will always
     enable the '+simd' extension.  The exception to the additive
     construction is for extensions that are prefixed with '+no...':
     these extensions disable the specified option and any other
     extensions that may depend on the presence of that extension.

     For example, '-march=armv7-a+simd+nofp+vfpv4' is equivalent to
     writing '-march=armv7-a+vfpv4' since the '+simd' option is entirely
     disabled by the '+nofp' option that follows it.

     Most extension names are generically named, but have an effect that
     is dependent upon the architecture to which it is applied.  For
     example, the '+simd' option can be applied to both 'armv7-a' and
     'armv8-a' architectures, but will enable the original ARMv7-A
     Advanced SIMD (Neon) extensions for 'armv7-a' and the ARMv8-A
     variant for 'armv8-a'.

     The table below lists the supported extensions for each
     architecture.  Architectures not mentioned do not support any
     extensions.

     'armv5te'
     'armv6'
     'armv6j'
     'armv6k'
     'armv6kz'
     'armv6t2'
     'armv6z'
     'armv6zk'
          '+fp'
               The VFPv2 floating-point instructions.  The extension
               '+vfpv2' can be used as an alias for this extension.

          '+nofp'
               Disable the floating-point instructions.

     'armv7'
          The common subset of the ARMv7-A, ARMv7-R and ARMv7-M
          architectures.
          '+fp'
               The VFPv3 floating-point instructions, with 16
               double-precision registers.  The extension '+vfpv3-d16'
               can be used as an alias for this extension.  Note that
               floating-point is not supported by the base ARMv7-M
               architecture, but is compatible with both the ARMv7-A and
               ARMv7-R architectures.

          '+nofp'
               Disable the floating-point instructions.

     'armv7-a'
          '+mp'
               The multiprocessing extension.

          '+sec'
               The security extension.

          '+fp'
               The VFPv3 floating-point instructions, with 16
               double-precision registers.  The extension '+vfpv3-d16'
               can be used as an alias for this extension.

          '+simd'
               The Advanced SIMD (Neon) v1 and the VFPv3 floating-point
               instructions.  The extensions '+neon' and '+neon-vfpv3'
               can be used as aliases for this extension.

          '+vfpv3'
               The VFPv3 floating-point instructions, with 32
               double-precision registers.

          '+vfpv3-d16-fp16'
               The VFPv3 floating-point instructions, with 16
               double-precision registers and the half-precision
               floating-point conversion operations.

          '+vfpv3-fp16'
               The VFPv3 floating-point instructions, with 32
               double-precision registers and the half-precision
               floating-point conversion operations.

          '+vfpv4-d16'
               The VFPv4 floating-point instructions, with 16
               double-precision registers.

          '+vfpv4'
               The VFPv4 floating-point instructions, with 32
               double-precision registers.

          '+neon-fp16'
               The Advanced SIMD (Neon) v1 and the VFPv3 floating-point
               instructions, with the half-precision floating-point
               conversion operations.

          '+neon-vfpv4'
               The Advanced SIMD (Neon) v2 and the VFPv4 floating-point
               instructions.

          '+nosimd'
               Disable the Advanced SIMD instructions (does not disable
               floating point).

          '+nofp'
               Disable the floating-point and Advanced SIMD
               instructions.

     'armv7ve'
          The extended version of the ARMv7-A architecture with support
          for virtualization.
          '+fp'
               The VFPv4 floating-point instructions, with 16
               double-precision registers.  The extension '+vfpv4-d16'
               can be used as an alias for this extension.

          '+simd'
               The Advanced SIMD (Neon) v2 and the VFPv4 floating-point
               instructions.  The extension '+neon-vfpv4' can be used as
               an alias for this extension.

          '+vfpv3-d16'
               The VFPv3 floating-point instructions, with 16
               double-precision registers.

          '+vfpv3'
               The VFPv3 floating-point instructions, with 32
               double-precision registers.

          '+vfpv3-d16-fp16'
               The VFPv3 floating-point instructions, with 16
               double-precision registers and the half-precision
               floating-point conversion operations.

          '+vfpv3-fp16'
               The VFPv3 floating-point instructions, with 32
               double-precision registers and the half-precision
               floating-point conversion operations.

          '+vfpv4-d16'
               The VFPv4 floating-point instructions, with 16
               double-precision registers.

          '+vfpv4'
               The VFPv4 floating-point instructions, with 32
               double-precision registers.

          '+neon'
               The Advanced SIMD (Neon) v1 and the VFPv3 floating-point
               instructions.  The extension '+neon-vfpv3' can be used as
               an alias for this extension.

          '+neon-fp16'
               The Advanced SIMD (Neon) v1 and the VFPv3 floating-point
               instructions, with the half-precision floating-point
               conversion operations.

          '+nosimd'
               Disable the Advanced SIMD instructions (does not disable
               floating point).

          '+nofp'
               Disable the floating-point and Advanced SIMD
               instructions.

     'armv8-a'
          '+crc'
               The Cyclic Redundancy Check (CRC) instructions.
          '+simd'
               The ARMv8-A Advanced SIMD and floating-point
               instructions.
          '+crypto'
               The cryptographic instructions.
          '+nocrypto'
               Disable the cryptographic instructions.
          '+nofp'
               Disable the floating-point, Advanced SIMD and
               cryptographic instructions.
          '+sb'
               Speculation Barrier Instruction.
          '+predres'
               Execution and Data Prediction Restriction Instructions.

     'armv8.1-a'
          '+simd'
               The ARMv8.1-A Advanced SIMD and floating-point
               instructions.

          '+crypto'
               The cryptographic instructions.  This also enables the
               Advanced SIMD and floating-point instructions.

          '+nocrypto'
               Disable the cryptographic instructions.

          '+nofp'
               Disable the floating-point, Advanced SIMD and
               cryptographic instructions.

          '+sb'
               Speculation Barrier Instruction.

          '+predres'
               Execution and Data Prediction Restriction Instructions.

     'armv8.2-a'
     'armv8.3-a'
          '+fp16'
               The half-precision floating-point data processing
               instructions.  This also enables the Advanced SIMD and
               floating-point instructions.

          '+fp16fml'
               The half-precision floating-point fmla extension.  This
               also enables the half-precision floating-point extension
               and Advanced SIMD and floating-point instructions.

          '+simd'
               The ARMv8.1-A Advanced SIMD and floating-point
               instructions.

          '+crypto'
               The cryptographic instructions.  This also enables the
               Advanced SIMD and floating-point instructions.

          '+dotprod'
               Enable the Dot Product extension.  This also enables
               Advanced SIMD instructions.

          '+nocrypto'
               Disable the cryptographic extension.

          '+nofp'
               Disable the floating-point, Advanced SIMD and
               cryptographic instructions.

          '+sb'
               Speculation Barrier Instruction.

          '+predres'
               Execution and Data Prediction Restriction Instructions.

     'armv8.4-a'
          '+fp16'
               The half-precision floating-point data processing
               instructions.  This also enables the Advanced SIMD and
               floating-point instructions as well as the Dot Product
               extension and the half-precision floating-point fmla
               extension.

          '+simd'
               The ARMv8.3-A Advanced SIMD and floating-point
               instructions as well as the Dot Product extension.

          '+crypto'
               The cryptographic instructions.  This also enables the
               Advanced SIMD and floating-point instructions as well as
               the Dot Product extension.

          '+nocrypto'
               Disable the cryptographic extension.

          '+nofp'
               Disable the floating-point, Advanced SIMD and
               cryptographic instructions.

          '+sb'
               Speculation Barrier Instruction.

          '+predres'
               Execution and Data Prediction Restriction Instructions.

     'armv8.5-a'
          '+fp16'
               The half-precision floating-point data processing
               instructions.  This also enables the Advanced SIMD and
               floating-point instructions as well as the Dot Product
               extension and the half-precision floating-point fmla
               extension.

          '+simd'
               The ARMv8.3-A Advanced SIMD and floating-point
               instructions as well as the Dot Product extension.

          '+crypto'
               The cryptographic instructions.  This also enables the
               Advanced SIMD and floating-point instructions as well as
               the Dot Product extension.

          '+nocrypto'
               Disable the cryptographic extension.

          '+nofp'
               Disable the floating-point, Advanced SIMD and
               cryptographic instructions.

     'armv7-r'
          '+fp.sp'
               The single-precision VFPv3 floating-point instructions.
               The extension '+vfpv3xd' can be used as an alias for this
               extension.

          '+fp'
               The VFPv3 floating-point instructions with 16
               double-precision registers.  The extension +vfpv3-d16 can
               be used as an alias for this extension.

          '+vfpv3xd-d16-fp16'
               The single-precision VFPv3 floating-point instructions
               with 16 double-precision registers and the half-precision
               floating-point conversion operations.

          '+vfpv3-d16-fp16'
               The VFPv3 floating-point instructions with 16
               double-precision registers and the half-precision
               floating-point conversion operations.

          '+nofp'
               Disable the floating-point extension.

          '+idiv'
               The ARM-state integer division instructions.

          '+noidiv'
               Disable the ARM-state integer division extension.

     'armv7e-m'
          '+fp'
               The single-precision VFPv4 floating-point instructions.

          '+fpv5'
               The single-precision FPv5 floating-point instructions.

          '+fp.dp'
               The single- and double-precision FPv5 floating-point
               instructions.

          '+nofp'
               Disable the floating-point extensions.

     'armv8-m.main'
          '+dsp'
               The DSP instructions.

          '+nodsp'
               Disable the DSP extension.

          '+fp'
               The single-precision floating-point instructions.

          '+fp.dp'
               The single- and double-precision floating-point
               instructions.

          '+nofp'
               Disable the floating-point extension.

     'armv8-r'
          '+crc'
               The Cyclic Redundancy Check (CRC) instructions.
          '+fp.sp'
               The single-precision FPv5 floating-point instructions.
          '+simd'
               The ARMv8-A Advanced SIMD and floating-point
               instructions.
          '+crypto'
               The cryptographic instructions.
          '+nocrypto'
               Disable the cryptographic instructions.
          '+nofp'
               Disable the floating-point, Advanced SIMD and
               cryptographic instructions.

     '-march=native' causes the compiler to auto-detect the architecture
     of the build computer.  At present, this feature is only supported
     on GNU/Linux, and not all architectures are recognized.  If the
     auto-detect is unsuccessful the option has no effect.

'-mtune=NAME'
     This option specifies the name of the target ARM processor for
     which GCC should tune the performance of the code.  For some ARM
     implementations better performance can be obtained by using this
     option.  Permissible names are: 'arm7tdmi', 'arm7tdmi-s',
     'arm710t', 'arm720t', 'arm740t', 'strongarm', 'strongarm110',
     'strongarm1100', 0'strongarm1110', 'arm8', 'arm810', 'arm9',
     'arm9e', 'arm920', 'arm920t', 'arm922t', 'arm946e-s', 'arm966e-s',
     'arm968e-s', 'arm926ej-s', 'arm940t', 'arm9tdmi', 'arm10tdmi',
     'arm1020t', 'arm1026ej-s', 'arm10e', 'arm1020e', 'arm1022e',
     'arm1136j-s', 'arm1136jf-s', 'mpcore', 'mpcorenovfp',
     'arm1156t2-s', 'arm1156t2f-s', 'arm1176jz-s', 'arm1176jzf-s',
     'generic-armv7-a', 'cortex-a5', 'cortex-a7', 'cortex-a8',
     'cortex-a9', 'cortex-a12', 'cortex-a15', 'cortex-a17',
     'cortex-a32', 'cortex-a35', 'cortex-a53', 'cortex-a55',
     'cortex-a57', 'cortex-a72', 'cortex-a73', 'cortex-a75',
     'cortex-a76', 'ares', 'cortex-r4', 'cortex-r4f', 'cortex-r5',
     'cortex-r7', 'cortex-r8', 'cortex-r52', 'cortex-m0',
     'cortex-m0plus', 'cortex-m1', 'cortex-m3', 'cortex-m4',
     'cortex-m7', 'cortex-m23', 'cortex-m33',
     'cortex-m1.small-multiply', 'cortex-m0.small-multiply',
     'cortex-m0plus.small-multiply', 'exynos-m1', 'marvell-pj4',
     'neoverse-n1', 'xscale', 'iwmmxt', 'iwmmxt2', 'ep9312', 'fa526',
     'fa626', 'fa606te', 'fa626te', 'fmp626', 'fa726te', 'xgene1'.

     Additionally, this option can specify that GCC should tune the
     performance of the code for a big.LITTLE system.  Permissible names
     are: 'cortex-a15.cortex-a7', 'cortex-a17.cortex-a7',
     'cortex-a57.cortex-a53', 'cortex-a72.cortex-a53',
     'cortex-a72.cortex-a35', 'cortex-a73.cortex-a53',
     'cortex-a75.cortex-a55', 'cortex-a76.cortex-a55'.

     '-mtune=generic-ARCH' specifies that GCC should tune the
     performance for a blend of processors within architecture ARCH.
     The aim is to generate code that run well on the current most
     popular processors, balancing between optimizations that benefit
     some CPUs in the range, and avoiding performance pitfalls of other
     CPUs.  The effects of this option may change in future GCC versions
     as CPU models come and go.

     '-mtune' permits the same extension options as '-mcpu', but the
     extension options do not affect the tuning of the generated code.

     '-mtune=native' causes the compiler to auto-detect the CPU of the
     build computer.  At present, this feature is only supported on
     GNU/Linux, and not all architectures are recognized.  If the
     auto-detect is unsuccessful the option has no effect.

'-mcpu=NAME[+extension...]'
     This specifies the name of the target ARM processor.  GCC uses this
     name to derive the name of the target ARM architecture (as if
     specified by '-march') and the ARM processor type for which to tune
     for performance (as if specified by '-mtune').  Where this option
     is used in conjunction with '-march' or '-mtune', those options
     take precedence over the appropriate part of this option.

     Many of the supported CPUs implement optional architectural
     extensions.  Where this is so the architectural extensions are
     normally enabled by default.  If implementations that lack the
     extension exist, then the extension syntax can be used to disable
     those extensions that have been omitted.  For floating-point and
     Advanced SIMD (Neon) instructions, the settings of the options
     '-mfloat-abi' and '-mfpu' must also be considered: floating-point
     and Advanced SIMD instructions will only be used if '-mfloat-abi'
     is not set to 'soft'; and any setting of '-mfpu' other than 'auto'
     will override the available floating-point and SIMD extension
     instructions.

     For example, 'cortex-a9' can be found in three major
     configurations: integer only, with just a floating-point unit or
     with floating-point and Advanced SIMD. The default is to enable all
     the instructions, but the extensions '+nosimd' and '+nofp' can be
     used to disable just the SIMD or both the SIMD and floating-point
     instructions respectively.

     Permissible names for this option are the same as those for
     '-mtune'.

     The following extension options are common to the listed CPUs:

     '+nodsp'
          Disable the DSP instructions on 'cortex-m33'.

     '+nofp'
          Disables the floating-point instructions on 'arm9e',
          'arm946e-s', 'arm966e-s', 'arm968e-s', 'arm10e', 'arm1020e',
          'arm1022e', 'arm926ej-s', 'arm1026ej-s', 'cortex-r5',
          'cortex-r7', 'cortex-r8', 'cortex-m4', 'cortex-m7' and
          'cortex-m33'.  Disables the floating-point and SIMD
          instructions on 'generic-armv7-a', 'cortex-a5', 'cortex-a7',
          'cortex-a8', 'cortex-a9', 'cortex-a12', 'cortex-a15',
          'cortex-a17', 'cortex-a15.cortex-a7', 'cortex-a17.cortex-a7',
          'cortex-a32', 'cortex-a35', 'cortex-a53' and 'cortex-a55'.

     '+nofp.dp'
          Disables the double-precision component of the floating-point
          instructions on 'cortex-r5', 'cortex-r7', 'cortex-r8',
          'cortex-r52' and 'cortex-m7'.

     '+nosimd'
          Disables the SIMD (but not floating-point) instructions on
          'generic-armv7-a', 'cortex-a5', 'cortex-a7' and 'cortex-a9'.

     '+crypto'
          Enables the cryptographic instructions on 'cortex-a32',
          'cortex-a35', 'cortex-a53', 'cortex-a55', 'cortex-a57',
          'cortex-a72', 'cortex-a73', 'cortex-a75', 'exynos-m1',
          'xgene1', 'cortex-a57.cortex-a53', 'cortex-a72.cortex-a53',
          'cortex-a73.cortex-a35', 'cortex-a73.cortex-a53' and
          'cortex-a75.cortex-a55'.

     Additionally the 'generic-armv7-a' pseudo target defaults to VFPv3
     with 16 double-precision registers.  It supports the following
     extension options: 'mp', 'sec', 'vfpv3-d16', 'vfpv3',
     'vfpv3-d16-fp16', 'vfpv3-fp16', 'vfpv4-d16', 'vfpv4', 'neon',
     'neon-vfpv3', 'neon-fp16', 'neon-vfpv4'.  The meanings are the same
     as for the extensions to '-march=armv7-a'.

     '-mcpu=generic-ARCH' is also permissible, and is equivalent to
     '-march=ARCH -mtune=generic-ARCH'.  See '-mtune' for more
     information.

     '-mcpu=native' causes the compiler to auto-detect the CPU of the
     build computer.  At present, this feature is only supported on
     GNU/Linux, and not all architectures are recognized.  If the
     auto-detect is unsuccessful the option has no effect.

'-mfpu=NAME'
     This specifies what floating-point hardware (or hardware emulation)
     is available on the target.  Permissible names are: 'auto',
     'vfpv2', 'vfpv3', 'vfpv3-fp16', 'vfpv3-d16', 'vfpv3-d16-fp16',
     'vfpv3xd', 'vfpv3xd-fp16', 'neon-vfpv3', 'neon-fp16', 'vfpv4',
     'vfpv4-d16', 'fpv4-sp-d16', 'neon-vfpv4', 'fpv5-d16',
     'fpv5-sp-d16', 'fp-armv8', 'neon-fp-armv8' and
     'crypto-neon-fp-armv8'.  Note that 'neon' is an alias for
     'neon-vfpv3' and 'vfp' is an alias for 'vfpv2'.

     The setting 'auto' is the default and is special.  It causes the
     compiler to select the floating-point and Advanced SIMD
     instructions based on the settings of '-mcpu' and '-march'.

     If the selected floating-point hardware includes the NEON extension
     (e.g. '-mfpu=neon'), note that floating-point operations are not
     generated by GCC's auto-vectorization pass unless
     '-funsafe-math-optimizations' is also specified.  This is because
     NEON hardware does not fully implement the IEEE 754 standard for
     floating-point arithmetic (in particular denormal values are
     treated as zero), so the use of NEON instructions may lead to a
     loss of precision.

     You can also set the fpu name at function level by using the
     'target("fpu=")' function attributes (*note ARM Function
     Attributes::) or pragmas (*note Function Specific Option
     Pragmas::).

'-mfp16-format=NAME'
     Specify the format of the '__fp16' half-precision floating-point
     type.  Permissible names are 'none', 'ieee', and 'alternative'; the
     default is 'none', in which case the '__fp16' type is not defined.
     *Note Half-Precision::, for more information.

'-mstructure-size-boundary=N'
     The sizes of all structures and unions are rounded up to a multiple
     of the number of bits set by this option.  Permissible values are
     8, 32 and 64.  The default value varies for different toolchains.
     For the COFF targeted toolchain the default value is 8.  A value of
     64 is only allowed if the underlying ABI supports it.

     Specifying a larger number can produce faster, more efficient code,
     but can also increase the size of the program.  Different values
     are potentially incompatible.  Code compiled with one value cannot
     necessarily expect to work with code or libraries compiled with
     another value, if they exchange information using structures or
     unions.

     This option is deprecated.

'-mabort-on-noreturn'
     Generate a call to the function 'abort' at the end of a 'noreturn'
     function.  It is executed if the function tries to return.

'-mlong-calls'
'-mno-long-calls'
     Tells the compiler to perform function calls by first loading the
     address of the function into a register and then performing a
     subroutine call on this register.  This switch is needed if the
     target function lies outside of the 64-megabyte addressing range of
     the offset-based version of subroutine call instruction.

     Even if this switch is enabled, not all function calls are turned
     into long calls.  The heuristic is that static functions, functions
     that have the 'short_call' attribute, functions that are inside the
     scope of a '#pragma no_long_calls' directive, and functions whose
     definitions have already been compiled within the current
     compilation unit are not turned into long calls.  The exceptions to
     this rule are that weak function definitions, functions with the
     'long_call' attribute or the 'section' attribute, and functions
     that are within the scope of a '#pragma long_calls' directive are
     always turned into long calls.

     This feature is not enabled by default.  Specifying
     '-mno-long-calls' restores the default behavior, as does placing
     the function calls within the scope of a '#pragma long_calls_off'
     directive.  Note these switches have no effect on how the compiler
     generates code to handle function calls via function pointers.

'-msingle-pic-base'
     Treat the register used for PIC addressing as read-only, rather
     than loading it in the prologue for each function.  The runtime
     system is responsible for initializing this register with an
     appropriate value before execution begins.

'-mpic-register=REG'
     Specify the register to be used for PIC addressing.  For standard
     PIC base case, the default is any suitable register determined by
     compiler.  For single PIC base case, the default is 'R9' if target
     is EABI based or stack-checking is enabled, otherwise the default
     is 'R10'.

'-mpic-data-is-text-relative'
     Assume that the displacement between the text and data segments is
     fixed at static link time.  This permits using PC-relative
     addressing operations to access data known to be in the data
     segment.  For non-VxWorks RTP targets, this option is enabled by
     default.  When disabled on such targets, it will enable
     '-msingle-pic-base' by default.

'-mpoke-function-name'
     Write the name of each function into the text section, directly
     preceding the function prologue.  The generated code is similar to
     this:

               t0
                   .ascii "arm_poke_function_name", 0
                   .align
               t1
                   .word 0xff000000 + (t1 - t0)
               arm_poke_function_name
                   mov     ip, sp
                   stmfd   sp!, {fp, ip, lr, pc}
                   sub     fp, ip, #4

     When performing a stack backtrace, code can inspect the value of
     'pc' stored at 'fp + 0'.  If the trace function then looks at
     location 'pc - 12' and the top 8 bits are set, then we know that
     there is a function name embedded immediately preceding this
     location and has length '((pc[-3]) & 0xff000000)'.

'-mthumb'
'-marm'

     Select between generating code that executes in ARM and Thumb
     states.  The default for most configurations is to generate code
     that executes in ARM state, but the default can be changed by
     configuring GCC with the '--with-mode='STATE configure option.

     You can also override the ARM and Thumb mode for each function by
     using the 'target("thumb")' and 'target("arm")' function attributes
     (*note ARM Function Attributes::) or pragmas (*note Function
     Specific Option Pragmas::).

'-mflip-thumb'
     Switch ARM/Thumb modes on alternating functions.  This option is
     provided for regression testing of mixed Thumb/ARM code generation,
     and is not intended for ordinary use in compiling code.

'-mtpcs-frame'
     Generate a stack frame that is compliant with the Thumb Procedure
     Call Standard for all non-leaf functions.  (A leaf function is one
     that does not call any other functions.)  The default is
     '-mno-tpcs-frame'.

'-mtpcs-leaf-frame'
     Generate a stack frame that is compliant with the Thumb Procedure
     Call Standard for all leaf functions.  (A leaf function is one that
     does not call any other functions.)  The default is
     '-mno-apcs-leaf-frame'.

'-mcallee-super-interworking'
     Gives all externally visible functions in the file being compiled
     an ARM instruction set header which switches to Thumb mode before
     executing the rest of the function.  This allows these functions to
     be called from non-interworking code.  This option is not valid in
     AAPCS configurations because interworking is enabled by default.

'-mcaller-super-interworking'
     Allows calls via function pointers (including virtual functions) to
     execute correctly regardless of whether the target code has been
     compiled for interworking or not.  There is a small overhead in the
     cost of executing a function pointer if this option is enabled.
     This option is not valid in AAPCS configurations because
     interworking is enabled by default.

'-mtp=NAME'
     Specify the access model for the thread local storage pointer.  The
     valid models are 'soft', which generates calls to
     '__aeabi_read_tp', 'cp15', which fetches the thread pointer from
     'cp15' directly (supported in the arm6k architecture), and 'auto',
     which uses the best available method for the selected processor.
     The default setting is 'auto'.

'-mtls-dialect=DIALECT'
     Specify the dialect to use for accessing thread local storage.  Two
     DIALECTs are supported--'gnu' and 'gnu2'.  The 'gnu' dialect
     selects the original GNU scheme for supporting local and global
     dynamic TLS models.  The 'gnu2' dialect selects the GNU descriptor
     scheme, which provides better performance for shared libraries.
     The GNU descriptor scheme is compatible with the original scheme,
     but does require new assembler, linker and library support.
     Initial and local exec TLS models are unaffected by this option and
     always use the original scheme.

'-mword-relocations'
     Only generate absolute relocations on word-sized values (i.e.
     R_ARM_ABS32).  This is enabled by default on targets (uClinux,
     SymbianOS) where the runtime loader imposes this restriction, and
     when '-fpic' or '-fPIC' is specified.  This option conflicts with
     '-mslow-flash-data'.

'-mfix-cortex-m3-ldrd'
     Some Cortex-M3 cores can cause data corruption when 'ldrd'
     instructions with overlapping destination and base registers are
     used.  This option avoids generating these instructions.  This
     option is enabled by default when '-mcpu=cortex-m3' is specified.

'-munaligned-access'
'-mno-unaligned-access'
     Enables (or disables) reading and writing of 16- and 32- bit values
     from addresses that are not 16- or 32- bit aligned.  By default
     unaligned access is disabled for all pre-ARMv6, all ARMv6-M and for
     ARMv8-M Baseline architectures, and enabled for all other
     architectures.  If unaligned access is not enabled then words in
     packed data structures are accessed a byte at a time.

     The ARM attribute 'Tag_CPU_unaligned_access' is set in the
     generated object file to either true or false, depending upon the
     setting of this option.  If unaligned access is enabled then the
     preprocessor symbol '__ARM_FEATURE_UNALIGNED' is also defined.

'-mneon-for-64bits'
     Enables using Neon to handle scalar 64-bits operations.  This is
     disabled by default since the cost of moving data from core
     registers to Neon is high.

'-mslow-flash-data'
     Assume loading data from flash is slower than fetching instruction.
     Therefore literal load is minimized for better performance.  This
     option is only supported when compiling for ARMv7 M-profile and off
     by default.  It conflicts with '-mword-relocations'.

'-masm-syntax-unified'
     Assume inline assembler is using unified asm syntax.  The default
     is currently off which implies divided syntax.  This option has no
     impact on Thumb2.  However, this may change in future releases of
     GCC. Divided syntax should be considered deprecated.

'-mrestrict-it'
     Restricts generation of IT blocks to conform to the rules of
     ARMv8-A. IT blocks can only contain a single 16-bit instruction
     from a select set of instructions.  This option is on by default
     for ARMv8-A Thumb mode.

'-mprint-tune-info'
     Print CPU tuning information as comment in assembler file.  This is
     an option used only for regression testing of the compiler and not
     intended for ordinary use in compiling code.  This option is
     disabled by default.

'-mverbose-cost-dump'
     Enable verbose cost model dumping in the debug dump files.  This
     option is provided for use in debugging the compiler.

'-mpure-code'
     Do not allow constant data to be placed in code sections.
     Additionally, when compiling for ELF object format give all text
     sections the ELF processor-specific section attribute
     'SHF_ARM_PURECODE'.  This option is only available when generating
     non-pic code for M-profile targets with the MOVT instruction.

'-mcmse'
     Generate secure code as per the "ARMv8-M Security Extensions:
     Requirements on Development Tools Engineering Specification", which
     can be found on
     <http://infocenter.arm.com/help/topic/com.arm.doc.ecm0359818/ECM0359818_armv8m_security_extensions_reqs_on_dev_tools_1_0.pdf>.

File: gcc.info,  Node: AVR Options,  Next: Blackfin Options,  Prev: ARM Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.6 AVR Options
------------------

These options are defined for AVR implementations:

'-mmcu=MCU'
     Specify Atmel AVR instruction set architectures (ISA) or MCU type.

     The default for this option is 'avr2'.

     GCC supports the following AVR devices and ISAs:

     'avr2'
          "Classic" devices with up to 8 KiB of program memory.
          MCU = 'attiny22', 'attiny26', 'at90c8534', 'at90s2313',
          'at90s2323', 'at90s2333', 'at90s2343', 'at90s4414',
          'at90s4433', 'at90s4434', 'at90s8515', 'at90s8535'.

     'avr25'
          "Classic" devices with up to 8 KiB of program memory and with
          the 'MOVW' instruction.
          MCU = 'ata5272', 'ata6616c', 'attiny13', 'attiny13a',
          'attiny2313', 'attiny2313a', 'attiny24', 'attiny24a',
          'attiny25', 'attiny261', 'attiny261a', 'attiny43u',
          'attiny4313', 'attiny44', 'attiny44a', 'attiny441',
          'attiny45', 'attiny461', 'attiny461a', 'attiny48',
          'attiny828', 'attiny84', 'attiny84a', 'attiny841', 'attiny85',
          'attiny861', 'attiny861a', 'attiny87', 'attiny88',
          'at86rf401'.

     'avr3'
          "Classic" devices with 16 KiB up to 64 KiB of program memory.
          MCU = 'at43usb355', 'at76c711'.

     'avr31'
          "Classic" devices with 128 KiB of program memory.
          MCU = 'atmega103', 'at43usb320'.

     'avr35'
          "Classic" devices with 16 KiB up to 64 KiB of program memory
          and with the 'MOVW' instruction.
          MCU = 'ata5505', 'ata6617c', 'ata664251', 'atmega16u2',
          'atmega32u2', 'atmega8u2', 'attiny1634', 'attiny167',
          'at90usb162', 'at90usb82'.

     'avr4'
          "Enhanced" devices with up to 8 KiB of program memory.
          MCU = 'ata6285', 'ata6286', 'ata6289', 'ata6612c', 'atmega48',
          'atmega48a', 'atmega48p', 'atmega48pa', 'atmega48pb',
          'atmega8', 'atmega8a', 'atmega8hva', 'atmega8515',
          'atmega8535', 'atmega88', 'atmega88a', 'atmega88p',
          'atmega88pa', 'atmega88pb', 'at90pwm1', 'at90pwm2',
          'at90pwm2b', 'at90pwm3', 'at90pwm3b', 'at90pwm81'.

     'avr5'
          "Enhanced" devices with 16 KiB up to 64 KiB of program memory.

          MCU = 'ata5702m322', 'ata5782', 'ata5790', 'ata5790n',
          'ata5791', 'ata5795', 'ata5831', 'ata6613c', 'ata6614q',
          'ata8210', 'ata8510', 'atmega16', 'atmega16a', 'atmega16hva',
          'atmega16hva2', 'atmega16hvb', 'atmega16hvbrevb',
          'atmega16m1', 'atmega16u4', 'atmega161', 'atmega162',
          'atmega163', 'atmega164a', 'atmega164p', 'atmega164pa',
          'atmega165', 'atmega165a', 'atmega165p', 'atmega165pa',
          'atmega168', 'atmega168a', 'atmega168p', 'atmega168pa',
          'atmega168pb', 'atmega169', 'atmega169a', 'atmega169p',
          'atmega169pa', 'atmega32', 'atmega32a', 'atmega32c1',
          'atmega32hvb', 'atmega32hvbrevb', 'atmega32m1', 'atmega32u4',
          'atmega32u6', 'atmega323', 'atmega324a', 'atmega324p',
          'atmega324pa', 'atmega325', 'atmega325a', 'atmega325p',
          'atmega325pa', 'atmega3250', 'atmega3250a', 'atmega3250p',
          'atmega3250pa', 'atmega328', 'atmega328p', 'atmega328pb',
          'atmega329', 'atmega329a', 'atmega329p', 'atmega329pa',
          'atmega3290', 'atmega3290a', 'atmega3290p', 'atmega3290pa',
          'atmega406', 'atmega64', 'atmega64a', 'atmega64c1',
          'atmega64hve', 'atmega64hve2', 'atmega64m1', 'atmega64rfr2',
          'atmega640', 'atmega644', 'atmega644a', 'atmega644p',
          'atmega644pa', 'atmega644rfr2', 'atmega645', 'atmega645a',
          'atmega645p', 'atmega6450', 'atmega6450a', 'atmega6450p',
          'atmega649', 'atmega649a', 'atmega649p', 'atmega6490',
          'atmega6490a', 'atmega6490p', 'at90can32', 'at90can64',
          'at90pwm161', 'at90pwm216', 'at90pwm316', 'at90scr100',
          'at90usb646', 'at90usb647', 'at94k', 'm3000'.

     'avr51'
          "Enhanced" devices with 128 KiB of program memory.
          MCU = 'atmega128', 'atmega128a', 'atmega128rfa1',
          'atmega128rfr2', 'atmega1280', 'atmega1281', 'atmega1284',
          'atmega1284p', 'atmega1284rfr2', 'at90can128', 'at90usb1286',
          'at90usb1287'.

     'avr6'
          "Enhanced" devices with 3-byte PC, i.e. with more than 128 KiB
          of program memory.
          MCU = 'atmega256rfr2', 'atmega2560', 'atmega2561',
          'atmega2564rfr2'.

     'avrxmega2'
          "XMEGA" devices with more than 8 KiB and up to 64 KiB of
          program memory.
          MCU = 'atxmega16a4', 'atxmega16a4u', 'atxmega16c4',
          'atxmega16d4', 'atxmega16e5', 'atxmega32a4', 'atxmega32a4u',
          'atxmega32c3', 'atxmega32c4', 'atxmega32d3', 'atxmega32d4',
          'atxmega32e5', 'atxmega8e5'.

     'avrxmega3'
          "XMEGA" devices with up to 64 KiB of combined program memory
          and RAM, and with program memory visible in the RAM address
          space.
          MCU = 'attiny1614', 'attiny1616', 'attiny1617', 'attiny212',
          'attiny214', 'attiny3214', 'attiny3216', 'attiny3217',
          'attiny412', 'attiny414', 'attiny416', 'attiny417',
          'attiny814', 'attiny816', 'attiny817'.

     'avrxmega4'
          "XMEGA" devices with more than 64 KiB and up to 128 KiB of
          program memory.
          MCU = 'atxmega64a3', 'atxmega64a3u', 'atxmega64a4u',
          'atxmega64b1', 'atxmega64b3', 'atxmega64c3', 'atxmega64d3',
          'atxmega64d4'.

     'avrxmega5'
          "XMEGA" devices with more than 64 KiB and up to 128 KiB of
          program memory and more than 64 KiB of RAM.
          MCU = 'atxmega64a1', 'atxmega64a1u'.

     'avrxmega6'
          "XMEGA" devices with more than 128 KiB of program memory.
          MCU = 'atxmega128a3', 'atxmega128a3u', 'atxmega128b1',
          'atxmega128b3', 'atxmega128c3', 'atxmega128d3',
          'atxmega128d4', 'atxmega192a3', 'atxmega192a3u',
          'atxmega192c3', 'atxmega192d3', 'atxmega256a3',
          'atxmega256a3b', 'atxmega256a3bu', 'atxmega256a3u',
          'atxmega256c3', 'atxmega256d3', 'atxmega384c3',
          'atxmega384d3'.

     'avrxmega7'
          "XMEGA" devices with more than 128 KiB of program memory and
          more than 64 KiB of RAM.
          MCU = 'atxmega128a1', 'atxmega128a1u', 'atxmega128a4u'.

     'avrtiny'
          "TINY" Tiny core devices with 512 B up to 4 KiB of program
          memory.
          MCU = 'attiny10', 'attiny20', 'attiny4', 'attiny40',
          'attiny5', 'attiny9'.

     'avr1'
          This ISA is implemented by the minimal AVR core and supported
          for assembler only.
          MCU = 'attiny11', 'attiny12', 'attiny15', 'attiny28',
          'at90s1200'.

'-mabsdata'

     Assume that all data in static storage can be accessed by LDS / STS
     instructions.  This option has only an effect on reduced Tiny
     devices like ATtiny40.  See also the 'absdata' *note variable
     attribute: AVR Variable Attributes.

'-maccumulate-args'
     Accumulate outgoing function arguments and acquire/release the
     needed stack space for outgoing function arguments once in function
     prologue/epilogue.  Without this option, outgoing arguments are
     pushed before calling a function and popped afterwards.

     Popping the arguments after the function call can be expensive on
     AVR so that accumulating the stack space might lead to smaller
     executables because arguments need not be removed from the stack
     after such a function call.

     This option can lead to reduced code size for functions that
     perform several calls to functions that get their arguments on the
     stack like calls to printf-like functions.

'-mbranch-cost=COST'
     Set the branch costs for conditional branch instructions to COST.
     Reasonable values for COST are small, non-negative integers.  The
     default branch cost is 0.

'-mcall-prologues'
     Functions prologues/epilogues are expanded as calls to appropriate
     subroutines.  Code size is smaller.

'-mgas-isr-prologues'
     Interrupt service routines (ISRs) may use the '__gcc_isr' pseudo
     instruction supported by GNU Binutils.  If this option is on, the
     feature can still be disabled for individual ISRs by means of the
     *note 'no_gccisr': AVR Function Attributes. function attribute.
     This feature is activated per default if optimization is on (but
     not with '-Og', *note Optimize Options::), and if GNU Binutils
     support PR21683 (https://sourceware.org/PR21683).

'-mint8'
     Assume 'int' to be 8-bit integer.  This affects the sizes of all
     types: a 'char' is 1 byte, an 'int' is 1 byte, a 'long' is 2 bytes,
     and 'long long' is 4 bytes.  Please note that this option does not
     conform to the C standards, but it results in smaller code size.

'-mmain-is-OS_task'
     Do not save registers in 'main'.  The effect is the same like
     attaching attribute *note 'OS_task': AVR Function Attributes. to
     'main'.  It is activated per default if optimization is on.

'-mn-flash=NUM'
     Assume that the flash memory has a size of NUM times 64 KiB.

'-mno-interrupts'
     Generated code is not compatible with hardware interrupts.  Code
     size is smaller.

'-mrelax'
     Try to replace 'CALL' resp. 'JMP' instruction by the shorter
     'RCALL' resp. 'RJMP' instruction if applicable.  Setting '-mrelax'
     just adds the '--mlink-relax' option to the assembler's command
     line and the '--relax' option to the linker's command line.

     Jump relaxing is performed by the linker because jump offsets are
     not known before code is located.  Therefore, the assembler code
     generated by the compiler is the same, but the instructions in the
     executable may differ from instructions in the assembler code.

     Relaxing must be turned on if linker stubs are needed, see the
     section on 'EIND' and linker stubs below.

'-mrmw'
     Assume that the device supports the Read-Modify-Write instructions
     'XCH', 'LAC', 'LAS' and 'LAT'.

'-mshort-calls'

     Assume that 'RJMP' and 'RCALL' can target the whole program memory.

     This option is used internally for multilib selection.  It is not
     an optimization option, and you don't need to set it by hand.

'-msp8'
     Treat the stack pointer register as an 8-bit register, i.e. assume
     the high byte of the stack pointer is zero.  In general, you don't
     need to set this option by hand.

     This option is used internally by the compiler to select and build
     multilibs for architectures 'avr2' and 'avr25'.  These
     architectures mix devices with and without 'SPH'.  For any setting
     other than '-mmcu=avr2' or '-mmcu=avr25' the compiler driver adds
     or removes this option from the compiler proper's command line,
     because the compiler then knows if the device or architecture has
     an 8-bit stack pointer and thus no 'SPH' register or not.

'-mstrict-X'
     Use address register 'X' in a way proposed by the hardware.  This
     means that 'X' is only used in indirect, post-increment or
     pre-decrement addressing.

     Without this option, the 'X' register may be used in the same way
     as 'Y' or 'Z' which then is emulated by additional instructions.
     For example, loading a value with 'X+const' addressing with a small
     non-negative 'const < 64' to a register RN is performed as

          adiw r26, const   ; X += const
          ld   RN, X        ; RN = *X
          sbiw r26, const   ; X -= const

'-mtiny-stack'
     Only change the lower 8 bits of the stack pointer.

'-mfract-convert-truncate'
     Allow to use truncation instead of rounding towards zero for
     fractional fixed-point types.

'-nodevicelib'
     Don't link against AVR-LibC's device specific library 'lib<mcu>.a'.

'-Waddr-space-convert'
     Warn about conversions between address spaces in the case where the
     resulting address space is not contained in the incoming address
     space.

'-Wmisspelled-isr'
     Warn if the ISR is misspelled, i.e. without __vector prefix.
     Enabled by default.

3.18.6.1 'EIND' and Devices with More Than 128 Ki Bytes of Flash
................................................................

Pointers in the implementation are 16 bits wide.  The address of a
function or label is represented as word address so that indirect jumps
and calls can target any code address in the range of 64 Ki words.

 In order to facilitate indirect jump on devices with more than 128 Ki
bytes of program memory space, there is a special function register
called 'EIND' that serves as most significant part of the target address
when 'EICALL' or 'EIJMP' instructions are used.

 Indirect jumps and calls on these devices are handled as follows by the
compiler and are subject to some limitations:

   * The compiler never sets 'EIND'.

   * The compiler uses 'EIND' implicitly in 'EICALL'/'EIJMP'
     instructions or might read 'EIND' directly in order to emulate an
     indirect call/jump by means of a 'RET' instruction.

   * The compiler assumes that 'EIND' never changes during the startup
     code or during the application.  In particular, 'EIND' is not
     saved/restored in function or interrupt service routine
     prologue/epilogue.

   * For indirect calls to functions and computed goto, the linker
     generates _stubs_.  Stubs are jump pads sometimes also called
     _trampolines_.  Thus, the indirect call/jump jumps to such a stub.
     The stub contains a direct jump to the desired address.

   * Linker relaxation must be turned on so that the linker generates
     the stubs correctly in all situations.  See the compiler option
     '-mrelax' and the linker option '--relax'.  There are corner cases
     where the linker is supposed to generate stubs but aborts without
     relaxation and without a helpful error message.

   * The default linker script is arranged for code with 'EIND = 0'.  If
     code is supposed to work for a setup with 'EIND != 0', a custom
     linker script has to be used in order to place the sections whose
     name start with '.trampolines' into the segment where 'EIND' points
     to.

   * The startup code from libgcc never sets 'EIND'.  Notice that
     startup code is a blend of code from libgcc and AVR-LibC. For the
     impact of AVR-LibC on 'EIND', see the
     AVR-LibC user manual (http://nongnu.org/avr-libc/user-manual/).

   * It is legitimate for user-specific startup code to set up 'EIND'
     early, for example by means of initialization code located in
     section '.init3'.  Such code runs prior to general startup code
     that initializes RAM and calls constructors, but after the bit of
     startup code from AVR-LibC that sets 'EIND' to the segment where
     the vector table is located.
          #include <avr/io.h>

          static void
          __attribute__((section(".init3"),naked,used,no_instrument_function))
          init3_set_eind (void)
          {
            __asm volatile ("ldi r24,pm_hh8(__trampolines_start)\n\t"
                            "out %i0,r24" :: "n" (&EIND) : "r24","memory");
          }

     The '__trampolines_start' symbol is defined in the linker script.

   * Stubs are generated automatically by the linker if the following
     two conditions are met:

        - The address of a label is taken by means of the 'gs' modifier
          (short for _generate stubs_) like so:
               LDI r24, lo8(gs(FUNC))
               LDI r25, hi8(gs(FUNC))
        - The final location of that label is in a code segment
          _outside_ the segment where the stubs are located.

   * The compiler emits such 'gs' modifiers for code labels in the
     following situations:
        - Taking address of a function or code label.
        - Computed goto.
        - If prologue-save function is used, see '-mcall-prologues'
          command-line option.
        - Switch/case dispatch tables.  If you do not want such dispatch
          tables you can specify the '-fno-jump-tables' command-line
          option.
        - C and C++ constructors/destructors called during
          startup/shutdown.
        - If the tools hit a 'gs()' modifier explained above.

   * Jumping to non-symbolic addresses like so is _not_ supported:

          int main (void)
          {
              /* Call function at word address 0x2 */
              return ((int(*)(void)) 0x2)();
          }

     Instead, a stub has to be set up, i.e. the function has to be
     called through a symbol ('func_4' in the example):

          int main (void)
          {
              extern int func_4 (void);

              /* Call function at byte address 0x4 */
              return func_4();
          }

     and the application be linked with '-Wl,--defsym,func_4=0x4'.
     Alternatively, 'func_4' can be defined in the linker script.

3.18.6.2 Handling of the 'RAMPD', 'RAMPX', 'RAMPY' and 'RAMPZ' Special Function Registers
.........................................................................................

Some AVR devices support memories larger than the 64 KiB range that can
be accessed with 16-bit pointers.  To access memory locations outside
this 64 KiB range, the content of a 'RAMP' register is used as high part
of the address: The 'X', 'Y', 'Z' address register is concatenated with
the 'RAMPX', 'RAMPY', 'RAMPZ' special function register, respectively,
to get a wide address.  Similarly, 'RAMPD' is used together with direct
addressing.

   * The startup code initializes the 'RAMP' special function registers
     with zero.

   * If a *note named address space: AVR Named Address Spaces. other
     than generic or '__flash' is used, then 'RAMPZ' is set as needed
     before the operation.

   * If the device supports RAM larger than 64 KiB and the compiler
     needs to change 'RAMPZ' to accomplish an operation, 'RAMPZ' is
     reset to zero after the operation.

   * If the device comes with a specific 'RAMP' register, the ISR
     prologue/epilogue saves/restores that SFR and initializes it with
     zero in case the ISR code might (implicitly) use it.

   * RAM larger than 64 KiB is not supported by GCC for AVR targets.  If
     you use inline assembler to read from locations outside the 16-bit
     address range and change one of the 'RAMP' registers, you must
     reset it to zero after the access.

3.18.6.3 AVR Built-in Macros
............................

GCC defines several built-in macros so that the user code can test for
the presence or absence of features.  Almost any of the following
built-in macros are deduced from device capabilities and thus triggered
by the '-mmcu=' command-line option.

 For even more AVR-specific built-in macros see *note AVR Named Address
Spaces:: and *note AVR Built-in Functions::.

'__AVR_ARCH__'
     Build-in macro that resolves to a decimal number that identifies
     the architecture and depends on the '-mmcu=MCU' option.  Possible
     values are:

     '2', '25', '3', '31', '35', '4', '5', '51', '6'

     for MCU='avr2', 'avr25', 'avr3', 'avr31', 'avr35', 'avr4', 'avr5',
     'avr51', 'avr6',

     respectively and

     '100', '102', '103', '104', '105', '106', '107'

     for MCU='avrtiny', 'avrxmega2', 'avrxmega3', 'avrxmega4',
     'avrxmega5', 'avrxmega6', 'avrxmega7', respectively.  If MCU
     specifies a device, this built-in macro is set accordingly.  For
     example, with '-mmcu=atmega8' the macro is defined to '4'.

'__AVR_DEVICE__'
     Setting '-mmcu=DEVICE' defines this built-in macro which reflects
     the device's name.  For example, '-mmcu=atmega8' defines the
     built-in macro '__AVR_ATmega8__', '-mmcu=attiny261a' defines
     '__AVR_ATtiny261A__', etc.

     The built-in macros' names follow the scheme '__AVR_DEVICE__' where
     DEVICE is the device name as from the AVR user manual.  The
     difference between DEVICE in the built-in macro and DEVICE in
     '-mmcu=DEVICE' is that the latter is always lowercase.

     If DEVICE is not a device but only a core architecture like
     'avr51', this macro is not defined.

'__AVR_DEVICE_NAME__'
     Setting '-mmcu=DEVICE' defines this built-in macro to the device's
     name.  For example, with '-mmcu=atmega8' the macro is defined to
     'atmega8'.

     If DEVICE is not a device but only a core architecture like
     'avr51', this macro is not defined.

'__AVR_XMEGA__'
     The device / architecture belongs to the XMEGA family of devices.

'__AVR_HAVE_ELPM__'
     The device has the 'ELPM' instruction.

'__AVR_HAVE_ELPMX__'
     The device has the 'ELPM RN,Z' and 'ELPM RN,Z+' instructions.

'__AVR_HAVE_MOVW__'
     The device has the 'MOVW' instruction to perform 16-bit
     register-register moves.

'__AVR_HAVE_LPMX__'
     The device has the 'LPM RN,Z' and 'LPM RN,Z+' instructions.

'__AVR_HAVE_MUL__'
     The device has a hardware multiplier.

'__AVR_HAVE_JMP_CALL__'
     The device has the 'JMP' and 'CALL' instructions.  This is the case
     for devices with more than 8 KiB of program memory.

'__AVR_HAVE_EIJMP_EICALL__'
'__AVR_3_BYTE_PC__'
     The device has the 'EIJMP' and 'EICALL' instructions.  This is the
     case for devices with more than 128 KiB of program memory.  This
     also means that the program counter (PC) is 3 bytes wide.

'__AVR_2_BYTE_PC__'
     The program counter (PC) is 2 bytes wide.  This is the case for
     devices with up to 128 KiB of program memory.

'__AVR_HAVE_8BIT_SP__'
'__AVR_HAVE_16BIT_SP__'
     The stack pointer (SP) register is treated as 8-bit respectively
     16-bit register by the compiler.  The definition of these macros is
     affected by '-mtiny-stack'.

'__AVR_HAVE_SPH__'
'__AVR_SP8__'
     The device has the SPH (high part of stack pointer) special
     function register or has an 8-bit stack pointer, respectively.  The
     definition of these macros is affected by '-mmcu=' and in the cases
     of '-mmcu=avr2' and '-mmcu=avr25' also by '-msp8'.

'__AVR_HAVE_RAMPD__'
'__AVR_HAVE_RAMPX__'
'__AVR_HAVE_RAMPY__'
'__AVR_HAVE_RAMPZ__'
     The device has the 'RAMPD', 'RAMPX', 'RAMPY', 'RAMPZ' special
     function register, respectively.

'__NO_INTERRUPTS__'
     This macro reflects the '-mno-interrupts' command-line option.

'__AVR_ERRATA_SKIP__'
'__AVR_ERRATA_SKIP_JMP_CALL__'
     Some AVR devices (AT90S8515, ATmega103) must not skip 32-bit
     instructions because of a hardware erratum.  Skip instructions are
     'SBRS', 'SBRC', 'SBIS', 'SBIC' and 'CPSE'.  The second macro is
     only defined if '__AVR_HAVE_JMP_CALL__' is also set.

'__AVR_ISA_RMW__'
     The device has Read-Modify-Write instructions (XCH, LAC, LAS and
     LAT).

'__AVR_SFR_OFFSET__=OFFSET'
     Instructions that can address I/O special function registers
     directly like 'IN', 'OUT', 'SBI', etc. may use a different address
     as if addressed by an instruction to access RAM like 'LD' or 'STS'.
     This offset depends on the device architecture and has to be
     subtracted from the RAM address in order to get the respective
     I/O address.

'__AVR_SHORT_CALLS__'
     The '-mshort-calls' command line option is set.

'__AVR_PM_BASE_ADDRESS__=ADDR'
     Some devices support reading from flash memory by means of 'LD*'
     instructions.  The flash memory is seen in the data address space
     at an offset of '__AVR_PM_BASE_ADDRESS__'.  If this macro is not
     defined, this feature is not available.  If defined, the address
     space is linear and there is no need to put '.rodata' into RAM.
     This is handled by the default linker description file, and is
     currently available for 'avrtiny' and 'avrxmega3'.  Even more
     convenient, there is no need to use address spaces like '__flash'
     or features like attribute 'progmem' and 'pgm_read_*'.

'__WITH_AVRLIBC__'
     The compiler is configured to be used together with AVR-Libc.  See
     the '--with-avrlibc' configure option.

File: gcc.info,  Node: Blackfin Options,  Next: C6X Options,  Prev: AVR Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.7 Blackfin Options
-----------------------

'-mcpu=CPU[-SIREVISION]'
     Specifies the name of the target Blackfin processor.  Currently,
     CPU can be one of 'bf512', 'bf514', 'bf516', 'bf518', 'bf522',
     'bf523', 'bf524', 'bf525', 'bf526', 'bf527', 'bf531', 'bf532',
     'bf533', 'bf534', 'bf536', 'bf537', 'bf538', 'bf539', 'bf542',
     'bf544', 'bf547', 'bf548', 'bf549', 'bf542m', 'bf544m', 'bf547m',
     'bf548m', 'bf549m', 'bf561', 'bf592'.

     The optional SIREVISION specifies the silicon revision of the
     target Blackfin processor.  Any workarounds available for the
     targeted silicon revision are enabled.  If SIREVISION is 'none', no
     workarounds are enabled.  If SIREVISION is 'any', all workarounds
     for the targeted processor are enabled.  The '__SILICON_REVISION__'
     macro is defined to two hexadecimal digits representing the major
     and minor numbers in the silicon revision.  If SIREVISION is
     'none', the '__SILICON_REVISION__' is not defined.  If SIREVISION
     is 'any', the '__SILICON_REVISION__' is defined to be '0xffff'.  If
     this optional SIREVISION is not used, GCC assumes the latest known
     silicon revision of the targeted Blackfin processor.

     GCC defines a preprocessor macro for the specified CPU.  For the
     'bfin-elf' toolchain, this option causes the hardware BSP provided
     by libgloss to be linked in if '-msim' is not given.

     Without this option, 'bf532' is used as the processor by default.

     Note that support for 'bf561' is incomplete.  For 'bf561', only the
     preprocessor macro is defined.

'-msim'
     Specifies that the program will be run on the simulator.  This
     causes the simulator BSP provided by libgloss to be linked in.
     This option has effect only for 'bfin-elf' toolchain.  Certain
     other options, such as '-mid-shared-library' and '-mfdpic', imply
     '-msim'.

'-momit-leaf-frame-pointer'
     Don't keep the frame pointer in a register for leaf functions.
     This avoids the instructions to save, set up and restore frame
     pointers and makes an extra register available in leaf functions.

'-mspecld-anomaly'
     When enabled, the compiler ensures that the generated code does not
     contain speculative loads after jump instructions.  If this option
     is used, '__WORKAROUND_SPECULATIVE_LOADS' is defined.

'-mno-specld-anomaly'
     Don't generate extra code to prevent speculative loads from
     occurring.

'-mcsync-anomaly'
     When enabled, the compiler ensures that the generated code does not
     contain CSYNC or SSYNC instructions too soon after conditional
     branches.  If this option is used, '__WORKAROUND_SPECULATIVE_SYNCS'
     is defined.

'-mno-csync-anomaly'
     Don't generate extra code to prevent CSYNC or SSYNC instructions
     from occurring too soon after a conditional branch.

'-mlow64k'
     When enabled, the compiler is free to take advantage of the
     knowledge that the entire program fits into the low 64k of memory.

'-mno-low64k'
     Assume that the program is arbitrarily large.  This is the default.

'-mstack-check-l1'
     Do stack checking using information placed into L1 scratchpad
     memory by the uClinux kernel.

'-mid-shared-library'
     Generate code that supports shared libraries via the library ID
     method.  This allows for execute in place and shared libraries in
     an environment without virtual memory management.  This option
     implies '-fPIC'.  With a 'bfin-elf' target, this option implies
     '-msim'.

'-mno-id-shared-library'
     Generate code that doesn't assume ID-based shared libraries are
     being used.  This is the default.

'-mleaf-id-shared-library'
     Generate code that supports shared libraries via the library ID
     method, but assumes that this library or executable won't link
     against any other ID shared libraries.  That allows the compiler to
     use faster code for jumps and calls.

'-mno-leaf-id-shared-library'
     Do not assume that the code being compiled won't link against any
     ID shared libraries.  Slower code is generated for jump and call
     insns.

'-mshared-library-id=n'
     Specifies the identification number of the ID-based shared library
     being compiled.  Specifying a value of 0 generates more compact
     code; specifying other values forces the allocation of that number
     to the current library but is no more space- or time-efficient than
     omitting this option.

'-msep-data'
     Generate code that allows the data segment to be located in a
     different area of memory from the text segment.  This allows for
     execute in place in an environment without virtual memory
     management by eliminating relocations against the text section.

'-mno-sep-data'
     Generate code that assumes that the data segment follows the text
     segment.  This is the default.

'-mlong-calls'
'-mno-long-calls'
     Tells the compiler to perform function calls by first loading the
     address of the function into a register and then performing a
     subroutine call on this register.  This switch is needed if the
     target function lies outside of the 24-bit addressing range of the
     offset-based version of subroutine call instruction.

     This feature is not enabled by default.  Specifying
     '-mno-long-calls' restores the default behavior.  Note these
     switches have no effect on how the compiler generates code to
     handle function calls via function pointers.

'-mfast-fp'
     Link with the fast floating-point library.  This library relaxes
     some of the IEEE floating-point standard's rules for checking
     inputs against Not-a-Number (NAN), in the interest of performance.

'-minline-plt'
     Enable inlining of PLT entries in function calls to functions that
     are not known to bind locally.  It has no effect without '-mfdpic'.

'-mmulticore'
     Build a standalone application for multicore Blackfin processors.
     This option causes proper start files and link scripts supporting
     multicore to be used, and defines the macro '__BFIN_MULTICORE'.  It
     can only be used with '-mcpu=bf561[-SIREVISION]'.

     This option can be used with '-mcorea' or '-mcoreb', which selects
     the one-application-per-core programming model.  Without '-mcorea'
     or '-mcoreb', the single-application/dual-core programming model is
     used.  In this model, the main function of Core B should be named
     as 'coreb_main'.

     If this option is not used, the single-core application programming
     model is used.

'-mcorea'
     Build a standalone application for Core A of BF561 when using the
     one-application-per-core programming model.  Proper start files and
     link scripts are used to support Core A, and the macro
     '__BFIN_COREA' is defined.  This option can only be used in
     conjunction with '-mmulticore'.

'-mcoreb'
     Build a standalone application for Core B of BF561 when using the
     one-application-per-core programming model.  Proper start files and
     link scripts are used to support Core B, and the macro
     '__BFIN_COREB' is defined.  When this option is used, 'coreb_main'
     should be used instead of 'main'.  This option can only be used in
     conjunction with '-mmulticore'.

'-msdram'
     Build a standalone application for SDRAM. Proper start files and
     link scripts are used to put the application into SDRAM, and the
     macro '__BFIN_SDRAM' is defined.  The loader should initialize
     SDRAM before loading the application.

'-micplb'
     Assume that ICPLBs are enabled at run time.  This has an effect on
     certain anomaly workarounds.  For Linux targets, the default is to
     assume ICPLBs are enabled; for standalone applications the default
     is off.

File: gcc.info,  Node: C6X Options,  Next: CRIS Options,  Prev: Blackfin Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.8 C6X Options
------------------

'-march=NAME'
     This specifies the name of the target architecture.  GCC uses this
     name to determine what kind of instructions it can emit when
     generating assembly code.  Permissible names are: 'c62x', 'c64x',
     'c64x+', 'c67x', 'c67x+', 'c674x'.

'-mbig-endian'
     Generate code for a big-endian target.

'-mlittle-endian'
     Generate code for a little-endian target.  This is the default.

'-msim'
     Choose startup files and linker script suitable for the simulator.

'-msdata=default'
     Put small global and static data in the '.neardata' section, which
     is pointed to by register 'B14'.  Put small uninitialized global
     and static data in the '.bss' section, which is adjacent to the
     '.neardata' section.  Put small read-only data into the '.rodata'
     section.  The corresponding sections used for large pieces of data
     are '.fardata', '.far' and '.const'.

'-msdata=all'
     Put all data, not just small objects, into the sections reserved
     for small data, and use addressing relative to the 'B14' register
     to access them.

'-msdata=none'
     Make no use of the sections reserved for small data, and use
     absolute addresses to access all data.  Put all initialized global
     and static data in the '.fardata' section, and all uninitialized
     data in the '.far' section.  Put all constant data into the
     '.const' section.

File: gcc.info,  Node: CRIS Options,  Next: CR16 Options,  Prev: C6X Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.9 CRIS Options
-------------------

These options are defined specifically for the CRIS ports.

'-march=ARCHITECTURE-TYPE'
'-mcpu=ARCHITECTURE-TYPE'
     Generate code for the specified architecture.  The choices for
     ARCHITECTURE-TYPE are 'v3', 'v8' and 'v10' for respectively
     ETRAX 4, ETRAX 100, and ETRAX 100 LX.  Default is 'v0' except for
     cris-axis-linux-gnu, where the default is 'v10'.

'-mtune=ARCHITECTURE-TYPE'
     Tune to ARCHITECTURE-TYPE everything applicable about the generated
     code, except for the ABI and the set of available instructions.
     The choices for ARCHITECTURE-TYPE are the same as for
     '-march=ARCHITECTURE-TYPE'.

'-mmax-stack-frame=N'
     Warn when the stack frame of a function exceeds N bytes.

'-metrax4'
'-metrax100'
     The options '-metrax4' and '-metrax100' are synonyms for
     '-march=v3' and '-march=v8' respectively.

'-mmul-bug-workaround'
'-mno-mul-bug-workaround'
     Work around a bug in the 'muls' and 'mulu' instructions for CPU
     models where it applies.  This option is active by default.

'-mpdebug'
     Enable CRIS-specific verbose debug-related information in the
     assembly code.  This option also has the effect of turning off the
     '#NO_APP' formatted-code indicator to the assembler at the
     beginning of the assembly file.

'-mcc-init'
     Do not use condition-code results from previous instruction; always
     emit compare and test instructions before use of condition codes.

'-mno-side-effects'
     Do not emit instructions with side effects in addressing modes
     other than post-increment.

'-mstack-align'
'-mno-stack-align'
'-mdata-align'
'-mno-data-align'
'-mconst-align'
'-mno-const-align'
     These options ('no-' options) arrange (eliminate arrangements) for
     the stack frame, individual data and constants to be aligned for
     the maximum single data access size for the chosen CPU model.  The
     default is to arrange for 32-bit alignment.  ABI details such as
     structure layout are not affected by these options.

'-m32-bit'
'-m16-bit'
'-m8-bit'
     Similar to the stack- data- and const-align options above, these
     options arrange for stack frame, writable data and constants to all
     be 32-bit, 16-bit or 8-bit aligned.  The default is 32-bit
     alignment.

'-mno-prologue-epilogue'
'-mprologue-epilogue'
     With '-mno-prologue-epilogue', the normal function prologue and
     epilogue which set up the stack frame are omitted and no return
     instructions or return sequences are generated in the code.  Use
     this option only together with visual inspection of the compiled
     code: no warnings or errors are generated when call-saved registers
     must be saved, or storage for local variables needs to be
     allocated.

'-mno-gotplt'
'-mgotplt'
     With '-fpic' and '-fPIC', don't generate (do generate) instruction
     sequences that load addresses for functions from the PLT part of
     the GOT rather than (traditional on other architectures) calls to
     the PLT.  The default is '-mgotplt'.

'-melf'
     Legacy no-op option only recognized with the cris-axis-elf and
     cris-axis-linux-gnu targets.

'-mlinux'
     Legacy no-op option only recognized with the cris-axis-linux-gnu
     target.

'-sim'
     This option, recognized for the cris-axis-elf, arranges to link
     with input-output functions from a simulator library.  Code,
     initialized data and zero-initialized data are allocated
     consecutively.

'-sim2'
     Like '-sim', but pass linker options to locate initialized data at
     0x40000000 and zero-initialized data at 0x80000000.

File: gcc.info,  Node: CR16 Options,  Next: C-SKY Options,  Prev: CRIS Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.10 CR16 Options
--------------------

These options are defined specifically for the CR16 ports.

'-mmac'
     Enable the use of multiply-accumulate instructions.  Disabled by
     default.

'-mcr16cplus'
'-mcr16c'
     Generate code for CR16C or CR16C+ architecture.  CR16C+
     architecture is default.

'-msim'
     Links the library libsim.a which is in compatible with simulator.
     Applicable to ELF compiler only.

'-mint32'
     Choose integer type as 32-bit wide.

'-mbit-ops'
     Generates 'sbit'/'cbit' instructions for bit manipulations.

'-mdata-model=MODEL'
     Choose a data model.  The choices for MODEL are 'near', 'far' or
     'medium'.  'medium' is default.  However, 'far' is not valid with
     '-mcr16c', as the CR16C architecture does not support the far data
     model.

File: gcc.info,  Node: C-SKY Options,  Next: Darwin Options,  Prev: CR16 Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.11 C-SKY Options
---------------------

GCC supports these options when compiling for C-SKY V2 processors.

'-march=ARCH'
     Specify the C-SKY target architecture.  Valid values for ARCH are:
     'ck801', 'ck802', 'ck803', 'ck807', and 'ck810'.  The default is
     'ck810'.

'-mcpu=CPU'
     Specify the C-SKY target processor.  Valid values for CPU are:
     'ck801', 'ck801t', 'ck802', 'ck802t', 'ck802j', 'ck803', 'ck803h',
     'ck803t', 'ck803ht', 'ck803f', 'ck803fh', 'ck803e', 'ck803eh',
     'ck803et', 'ck803eht', 'ck803ef', 'ck803efh', 'ck803ft',
     'ck803eft', 'ck803efht', 'ck803r1', 'ck803hr1', 'ck803tr1',
     'ck803htr1', 'ck803fr1', 'ck803fhr1', 'ck803er1', 'ck803ehr1',
     'ck803etr1', 'ck803ehtr1', 'ck803efr1', 'ck803efhr1', 'ck803ftr1',
     'ck803eftr1', 'ck803efhtr1', 'ck803s', 'ck803st', 'ck803se',
     'ck803sf', 'ck803sef', 'ck803seft', 'ck807e', 'ck807ef', 'ck807',
     'ck807f', 'ck810e', 'ck810et', 'ck810ef', 'ck810eft', 'ck810',
     'ck810v', 'ck810f', 'ck810t', 'ck810fv', 'ck810tv', 'ck810ft', and
     'ck810ftv'.

'-mbig-endian'
'-EB'
'-mlittle-endian'
'-EL'

     Select big- or little-endian code.  The default is little-endian.

'-mhard-float'
'-msoft-float'

     Select hardware or software floating-point implementations.  The
     default is soft float.

'-mdouble-float'
'-mno-double-float'
     When '-mhard-float' is in effect, enable generation of
     double-precision float instructions.  This is the default except
     when compiling for CK803.

'-mfdivdu'
'-mno-fdivdu'
     When '-mhard-float' is in effect, enable generation of 'frecipd',
     'fsqrtd', and 'fdivd' instructions.  This is the default except
     when compiling for CK803.

'-mfpu=FPU'
     Select the floating-point processor.  This option can only be used
     with '-mhard-float'.  Values for FPU are 'fpv2_sf' (equivalent to
     '-mno-double-float -mno-fdivdu'), 'fpv2' ('-mdouble-float
     -mno-divdu'), and 'fpv2_divd' ('-mdouble-float -mdivdu').

'-melrw'
'-mno-elrw'
     Enable the extended 'lrw' instruction.  This option defaults to on
     for CK801 and off otherwise.

'-mistack'
'-mno-istack'
     Enable interrupt stack instructions; the default is off.

     The '-mistack' option is required to handle the 'interrupt' and
     'isr' function attributes (*note C-SKY Function Attributes::).

'-mmp'
     Enable multiprocessor instructions; the default is off.

'-mcp'
     Enable coprocessor instructions; the default is off.

'-mcache'
     Enable coprocessor instructions; the default is off.

'-msecurity'
     Enable C-SKY security instructions; the default is off.

'-mtrust'
     Enable C-SKY trust instructions; the default is off.

'-mdsp'
'-medsp'
'-mvdsp'
     Enable C-SKY DSP, Enhanced DSP, or Vector DSP instructions,
     respectively.  All of these options default to off.

'-mdiv'
'-mno-div'
     Generate divide instructions.  Default is off.

'-msmart'
'-mno-smart'
     Generate code for Smart Mode, using only registers numbered 0-7 to
     allow use of 16-bit instructions.  This option is ignored for CK801
     where this is the required behavior, and it defaults to on for
     CK802.  For other targets, the default is off.

'-mhigh-registers'
'-mno-high-registers'
     Generate code using the high registers numbered 16-31.  This option
     is not supported on CK801, CK802, or CK803, and is enabled by
     default for other processors.

'-manchor'
'-mno-anchor'
     Generate code using global anchor symbol addresses.

'-mpushpop'
'-mno-pushpop'
     Generate code using 'push' and 'pop' instructions.  This option
     defaults to on.

'-mmultiple-stld'
'-mstm'
'-mno-multiple-stld'
'-mno-stm'
     Generate code using 'stm' and 'ldm' instructions.  This option
     isn't supported on CK801 but is enabled by default on other
     processors.

'-mconstpool'
'-mno-constpool'
     Create constant pools in the compiler instead of deferring it to
     the assembler.  This option is the default and required for correct
     code generation on CK801 and CK802, and is optional on other
     processors.

'-mstack-size'
'-mno-stack-size'
     Emit '.stack_size' directives for each function in the assembly
     output.  This option defaults to off.

'-mccrt'
'-mno-ccrt'
     Generate code for the C-SKY compiler runtime instead of libgcc.
     This option defaults to off.

'-mbranch-cost=N'
     Set the branch costs to roughly 'n' instructions.  The default is
     1.

'-msched-prolog'
'-mno-sched-prolog'
     Permit scheduling of function prologue and epilogue sequences.
     Using this option can result in code that is not compliant with the
     C-SKY V2 ABI prologue requirements and that cannot be debugged or
     backtraced.  It is disabled by default.

File: gcc.info,  Node: Darwin Options,  Next: DEC Alpha Options,  Prev: C-SKY Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.12 Darwin Options
----------------------

These options are defined for all architectures running the Darwin
operating system.

 FSF GCC on Darwin does not create "fat" object files; it creates an
object file for the single architecture that GCC was built to target.
Apple's GCC on Darwin does create "fat" files if multiple '-arch'
options are used; it does so by running the compiler or linker multiple
times and joining the results together with 'lipo'.

 The subtype of the file created (like 'ppc7400' or 'ppc970' or 'i686')
is determined by the flags that specify the ISA that GCC is targeting,
like '-mcpu' or '-march'.  The '-force_cpusubtype_ALL' option can be
used to override this.

 The Darwin tools vary in their behavior when presented with an ISA
mismatch.  The assembler, 'as', only permits instructions to be used
that are valid for the subtype of the file it is generating, so you
cannot put 64-bit instructions in a 'ppc750' object file.  The linker
for shared libraries, '/usr/bin/libtool', fails and prints an error if
asked to create a shared library with a less restrictive subtype than
its input files (for instance, trying to put a 'ppc970' object file in a
'ppc7400' library).  The linker for executables, 'ld', quietly gives the
executable the most restrictive subtype of any of its input files.

'-FDIR'
     Add the framework directory DIR to the head of the list of
     directories to be searched for header files.  These directories are
     interleaved with those specified by '-I' options and are scanned in
     a left-to-right order.

     A framework directory is a directory with frameworks in it.  A
     framework is a directory with a 'Headers' and/or 'PrivateHeaders'
     directory contained directly in it that ends in '.framework'.  The
     name of a framework is the name of this directory excluding the
     '.framework'.  Headers associated with the framework are found in
     one of those two directories, with 'Headers' being searched first.
     A subframework is a framework directory that is in a framework's
     'Frameworks' directory.  Includes of subframework headers can only
     appear in a header of a framework that contains the subframework,
     or in a sibling subframework header.  Two subframeworks are
     siblings if they occur in the same framework.  A subframework
     should not have the same name as a framework; a warning is issued
     if this is violated.  Currently a subframework cannot have
     subframeworks; in the future, the mechanism may be extended to
     support this.  The standard frameworks can be found in
     '/System/Library/Frameworks' and '/Library/Frameworks'.  An example
     include looks like '#include <Framework/header.h>', where
     'Framework' denotes the name of the framework and 'header.h' is
     found in the 'PrivateHeaders' or 'Headers' directory.

'-iframeworkDIR'
     Like '-F' except the directory is a treated as a system directory.
     The main difference between this '-iframework' and '-F' is that
     with '-iframework' the compiler does not warn about constructs
     contained within header files found via DIR.  This option is valid
     only for the C family of languages.

'-gused'
     Emit debugging information for symbols that are used.  For stabs
     debugging format, this enables '-feliminate-unused-debug-symbols'.
     This is by default ON.

'-gfull'
     Emit debugging information for all symbols and types.

'-mmacosx-version-min=VERSION'
     The earliest version of MacOS X that this executable will run on is
     VERSION.  Typical values of VERSION include '10.1', '10.2', and
     '10.3.9'.

     If the compiler was built to use the system's headers by default,
     then the default for this option is the system version on which the
     compiler is running, otherwise the default is to make choices that
     are compatible with as many systems and code bases as possible.

'-mkernel'
     Enable kernel development mode.  The '-mkernel' option sets
     '-static', '-fno-common', '-fno-use-cxa-atexit', '-fno-exceptions',
     '-fno-non-call-exceptions', '-fapple-kext', '-fno-weak' and
     '-fno-rtti' where applicable.  This mode also sets '-mno-altivec',
     '-msoft-float', '-fno-builtin' and '-mlong-branch' for PowerPC
     targets.

'-mone-byte-bool'
     Override the defaults for 'bool' so that 'sizeof(bool)==1'.  By
     default 'sizeof(bool)' is '4' when compiling for Darwin/PowerPC and
     '1' when compiling for Darwin/x86, so this option has no effect on
     x86.

     *Warning:* The '-mone-byte-bool' switch causes GCC to generate code
     that is not binary compatible with code generated without that
     switch.  Using this switch may require recompiling all other
     modules in a program, including system libraries.  Use this switch
     to conform to a non-default data model.

'-mfix-and-continue'
'-ffix-and-continue'
'-findirect-data'
     Generate code suitable for fast turnaround development, such as to
     allow GDB to dynamically load '.o' files into already-running
     programs.  '-findirect-data' and '-ffix-and-continue' are provided
     for backwards compatibility.

'-all_load'
     Loads all members of static archive libraries.  See man ld(1) for
     more information.

'-arch_errors_fatal'
     Cause the errors having to do with files that have the wrong
     architecture to be fatal.

'-bind_at_load'
     Causes the output file to be marked such that the dynamic linker
     will bind all undefined references when the file is loaded or
     launched.

'-bundle'
     Produce a Mach-o bundle format file.  See man ld(1) for more
     information.

'-bundle_loader EXECUTABLE'
     This option specifies the EXECUTABLE that will load the build
     output file being linked.  See man ld(1) for more information.

'-dynamiclib'
     When passed this option, GCC produces a dynamic library instead of
     an executable when linking, using the Darwin 'libtool' command.

'-force_cpusubtype_ALL'
     This causes GCC's output file to have the 'ALL' subtype, instead of
     one controlled by the '-mcpu' or '-march' option.

'-allowable_client CLIENT_NAME'
'-client_name'
'-compatibility_version'
'-current_version'
'-dead_strip'
'-dependency-file'
'-dylib_file'
'-dylinker_install_name'
'-dynamic'
'-exported_symbols_list'
'-filelist'
'-flat_namespace'
'-force_flat_namespace'
'-headerpad_max_install_names'
'-image_base'
'-init'
'-install_name'
'-keep_private_externs'
'-multi_module'
'-multiply_defined'
'-multiply_defined_unused'
'-noall_load'
'-no_dead_strip_inits_and_terms'
'-nofixprebinding'
'-nomultidefs'
'-noprebind'
'-noseglinkedit'
'-pagezero_size'
'-prebind'
'-prebind_all_twolevel_modules'
'-private_bundle'
'-read_only_relocs'
'-sectalign'
'-sectobjectsymbols'
'-whyload'
'-seg1addr'
'-sectcreate'
'-sectobjectsymbols'
'-sectorder'
'-segaddr'
'-segs_read_only_addr'
'-segs_read_write_addr'
'-seg_addr_table'
'-seg_addr_table_filename'
'-seglinkedit'
'-segprot'
'-segs_read_only_addr'
'-segs_read_write_addr'
'-single_module'
'-static'
'-sub_library'
'-sub_umbrella'
'-twolevel_namespace'
'-umbrella'
'-undefined'
'-unexported_symbols_list'
'-weak_reference_mismatches'
'-whatsloaded'
     These options are passed to the Darwin linker.  The Darwin linker
     man page describes them in detail.

File: gcc.info,  Node: DEC Alpha Options,  Next: FR30 Options,  Prev: Darwin Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.13 DEC Alpha Options
-------------------------

These '-m' options are defined for the DEC Alpha implementations:

'-mno-soft-float'
'-msoft-float'
     Use (do not use) the hardware floating-point instructions for
     floating-point operations.  When '-msoft-float' is specified,
     functions in 'libgcc.a' are used to perform floating-point
     operations.  Unless they are replaced by routines that emulate the
     floating-point operations, or compiled in such a way as to call
     such emulations routines, these routines issue floating-point
     operations.  If you are compiling for an Alpha without
     floating-point operations, you must ensure that the library is
     built so as not to call them.

     Note that Alpha implementations without floating-point operations
     are required to have floating-point registers.

'-mfp-reg'
'-mno-fp-regs'
     Generate code that uses (does not use) the floating-point register
     set.  '-mno-fp-regs' implies '-msoft-float'.  If the floating-point
     register set is not used, floating-point operands are passed in
     integer registers as if they were integers and floating-point
     results are passed in '$0' instead of '$f0'.  This is a
     non-standard calling sequence, so any function with a
     floating-point argument or return value called by code compiled
     with '-mno-fp-regs' must also be compiled with that option.

     A typical use of this option is building a kernel that does not
     use, and hence need not save and restore, any floating-point
     registers.

'-mieee'
     The Alpha architecture implements floating-point hardware optimized
     for maximum performance.  It is mostly compliant with the IEEE
     floating-point standard.  However, for full compliance, software
     assistance is required.  This option generates code fully
     IEEE-compliant code _except_ that the INEXACT-FLAG is not
     maintained (see below).  If this option is turned on, the
     preprocessor macro '_IEEE_FP' is defined during compilation.  The
     resulting code is less efficient but is able to correctly support
     denormalized numbers and exceptional IEEE values such as
     not-a-number and plus/minus infinity.  Other Alpha compilers call
     this option '-ieee_with_no_inexact'.

'-mieee-with-inexact'
     This is like '-mieee' except the generated code also maintains the
     IEEE INEXACT-FLAG.  Turning on this option causes the generated
     code to implement fully-compliant IEEE math.  In addition to
     '_IEEE_FP', '_IEEE_FP_EXACT' is defined as a preprocessor macro.
     On some Alpha implementations the resulting code may execute
     significantly slower than the code generated by default.  Since
     there is very little code that depends on the INEXACT-FLAG, you
     should normally not specify this option.  Other Alpha compilers
     call this option '-ieee_with_inexact'.

'-mfp-trap-mode=TRAP-MODE'
     This option controls what floating-point related traps are enabled.
     Other Alpha compilers call this option '-fptm TRAP-MODE'.  The trap
     mode can be set to one of four values:

     'n'
          This is the default (normal) setting.  The only traps that are
          enabled are the ones that cannot be disabled in software
          (e.g., division by zero trap).

     'u'
          In addition to the traps enabled by 'n', underflow traps are
          enabled as well.

     'su'
          Like 'u', but the instructions are marked to be safe for
          software completion (see Alpha architecture manual for
          details).

     'sui'
          Like 'su', but inexact traps are enabled as well.

'-mfp-rounding-mode=ROUNDING-MODE'
     Selects the IEEE rounding mode.  Other Alpha compilers call this
     option '-fprm ROUNDING-MODE'.  The ROUNDING-MODE can be one of:

     'n'
          Normal IEEE rounding mode.  Floating-point numbers are rounded
          towards the nearest machine number or towards the even machine
          number in case of a tie.

     'm'
          Round towards minus infinity.

     'c'
          Chopped rounding mode.  Floating-point numbers are rounded
          towards zero.

     'd'
          Dynamic rounding mode.  A field in the floating-point control
          register (FPCR, see Alpha architecture reference manual)
          controls the rounding mode in effect.  The C library
          initializes this register for rounding towards plus infinity.
          Thus, unless your program modifies the FPCR, 'd' corresponds
          to round towards plus infinity.

'-mtrap-precision=TRAP-PRECISION'
     In the Alpha architecture, floating-point traps are imprecise.
     This means without software assistance it is impossible to recover
     from a floating trap and program execution normally needs to be
     terminated.  GCC can generate code that can assist operating system
     trap handlers in determining the exact location that caused a
     floating-point trap.  Depending on the requirements of an
     application, different levels of precisions can be selected:

     'p'
          Program precision.  This option is the default and means a
          trap handler can only identify which program caused a
          floating-point exception.

     'f'
          Function precision.  The trap handler can determine the
          function that caused a floating-point exception.

     'i'
          Instruction precision.  The trap handler can determine the
          exact instruction that caused a floating-point exception.

     Other Alpha compilers provide the equivalent options called
     '-scope_safe' and '-resumption_safe'.

'-mieee-conformant'
     This option marks the generated code as IEEE conformant.  You must
     not use this option unless you also specify '-mtrap-precision=i'
     and either '-mfp-trap-mode=su' or '-mfp-trap-mode=sui'.  Its only
     effect is to emit the line '.eflag 48' in the function prologue of
     the generated assembly file.

'-mbuild-constants'
     Normally GCC examines a 32- or 64-bit integer constant to see if it
     can construct it from smaller constants in two or three
     instructions.  If it cannot, it outputs the constant as a literal
     and generates code to load it from the data segment at run time.

     Use this option to require GCC to construct _all_ integer constants
     using code, even if it takes more instructions (the maximum is
     six).

     You typically use this option to build a shared library dynamic
     loader.  Itself a shared library, it must relocate itself in memory
     before it can find the variables and constants in its own data
     segment.

'-mbwx'
'-mno-bwx'
'-mcix'
'-mno-cix'
'-mfix'
'-mno-fix'
'-mmax'
'-mno-max'
     Indicate whether GCC should generate code to use the optional BWX,
     CIX, FIX and MAX instruction sets.  The default is to use the
     instruction sets supported by the CPU type specified via '-mcpu='
     option or that of the CPU on which GCC was built if none is
     specified.

'-mfloat-vax'
'-mfloat-ieee'
     Generate code that uses (does not use) VAX F and G floating-point
     arithmetic instead of IEEE single and double precision.

'-mexplicit-relocs'
'-mno-explicit-relocs'
     Older Alpha assemblers provided no way to generate symbol
     relocations except via assembler macros.  Use of these macros does
     not allow optimal instruction scheduling.  GNU binutils as of
     version 2.12 supports a new syntax that allows the compiler to
     explicitly mark which relocations should apply to which
     instructions.  This option is mostly useful for debugging, as GCC
     detects the capabilities of the assembler when it is built and sets
     the default accordingly.

'-msmall-data'
'-mlarge-data'
     When '-mexplicit-relocs' is in effect, static data is accessed via
     "gp-relative" relocations.  When '-msmall-data' is used, objects 8
     bytes long or smaller are placed in a "small data area" (the
     '.sdata' and '.sbss' sections) and are accessed via 16-bit
     relocations off of the '$gp' register.  This limits the size of the
     small data area to 64KB, but allows the variables to be directly
     accessed via a single instruction.

     The default is '-mlarge-data'.  With this option the data area is
     limited to just below 2GB.  Programs that require more than 2GB of
     data must use 'malloc' or 'mmap' to allocate the data in the heap
     instead of in the program's data segment.

     When generating code for shared libraries, '-fpic' implies
     '-msmall-data' and '-fPIC' implies '-mlarge-data'.

'-msmall-text'
'-mlarge-text'
     When '-msmall-text' is used, the compiler assumes that the code of
     the entire program (or shared library) fits in 4MB, and is thus
     reachable with a branch instruction.  When '-msmall-data' is used,
     the compiler can assume that all local symbols share the same '$gp'
     value, and thus reduce the number of instructions required for a
     function call from 4 to 1.

     The default is '-mlarge-text'.

'-mcpu=CPU_TYPE'
     Set the instruction set and instruction scheduling parameters for
     machine type CPU_TYPE.  You can specify either the 'EV' style name
     or the corresponding chip number.  GCC supports scheduling
     parameters for the EV4, EV5 and EV6 family of processors and
     chooses the default values for the instruction set from the
     processor you specify.  If you do not specify a processor type, GCC
     defaults to the processor on which the compiler was built.

     Supported values for CPU_TYPE are

     'ev4'
     'ev45'
     '21064'
          Schedules as an EV4 and has no instruction set extensions.

     'ev5'
     '21164'
          Schedules as an EV5 and has no instruction set extensions.

     'ev56'
     '21164a'
          Schedules as an EV5 and supports the BWX extension.

     'pca56'
     '21164pc'
     '21164PC'
          Schedules as an EV5 and supports the BWX and MAX extensions.

     'ev6'
     '21264'
          Schedules as an EV6 and supports the BWX, FIX, and MAX
          extensions.

     'ev67'
     '21264a'
          Schedules as an EV6 and supports the BWX, CIX, FIX, and MAX
          extensions.

     Native toolchains also support the value 'native', which selects
     the best architecture option for the host processor.
     '-mcpu=native' has no effect if GCC does not recognize the
     processor.

'-mtune=CPU_TYPE'
     Set only the instruction scheduling parameters for machine type
     CPU_TYPE.  The instruction set is not changed.

     Native toolchains also support the value 'native', which selects
     the best architecture option for the host processor.
     '-mtune=native' has no effect if GCC does not recognize the
     processor.

'-mmemory-latency=TIME'
     Sets the latency the scheduler should assume for typical memory
     references as seen by the application.  This number is highly
     dependent on the memory access patterns used by the application and
     the size of the external cache on the machine.

     Valid options for TIME are

     'NUMBER'
          A decimal number representing clock cycles.

     'L1'
     'L2'
     'L3'
     'main'
          The compiler contains estimates of the number of clock cycles
          for "typical" EV4 & EV5 hardware for the Level 1, 2 & 3 caches
          (also called Dcache, Scache, and Bcache), as well as to main
          memory.  Note that L3 is only valid for EV5.

File: gcc.info,  Node: FR30 Options,  Next: FT32 Options,  Prev: DEC Alpha Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.14 FR30 Options
--------------------

These options are defined specifically for the FR30 port.

'-msmall-model'
     Use the small address space model.  This can produce smaller code,
     but it does assume that all symbolic values and addresses fit into
     a 20-bit range.

'-mno-lsim'
     Assume that runtime support has been provided and so there is no
     need to include the simulator library ('libsim.a') on the linker
     command line.

File: gcc.info,  Node: FT32 Options,  Next: FRV Options,  Prev: FR30 Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.15 FT32 Options
--------------------

These options are defined specifically for the FT32 port.

'-msim'
     Specifies that the program will be run on the simulator.  This
     causes an alternate runtime startup and library to be linked.  You
     must not use this option when generating programs that will run on
     real hardware; you must provide your own runtime library for
     whatever I/O functions are needed.

'-mlra'
     Enable Local Register Allocation.  This is still experimental for
     FT32, so by default the compiler uses standard reload.

'-mnodiv'
     Do not use div and mod instructions.

'-mft32b'
     Enable use of the extended instructions of the FT32B processor.

'-mcompress'
     Compress all code using the Ft32B code compression scheme.

'-mnopm'
     Do not generate code that reads program memory.

File: gcc.info,  Node: FRV Options,  Next: GNU/Linux Options,  Prev: FT32 Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.16 FRV Options
-------------------

'-mgpr-32'

     Only use the first 32 general-purpose registers.

'-mgpr-64'

     Use all 64 general-purpose registers.

'-mfpr-32'

     Use only the first 32 floating-point registers.

'-mfpr-64'

     Use all 64 floating-point registers.

'-mhard-float'

     Use hardware instructions for floating-point operations.

'-msoft-float'

     Use library routines for floating-point operations.

'-malloc-cc'

     Dynamically allocate condition code registers.

'-mfixed-cc'

     Do not try to dynamically allocate condition code registers, only
     use 'icc0' and 'fcc0'.

'-mdword'

     Change ABI to use double word insns.

'-mno-dword'

     Do not use double word instructions.

'-mdouble'

     Use floating-point double instructions.

'-mno-double'

     Do not use floating-point double instructions.

'-mmedia'

     Use media instructions.

'-mno-media'

     Do not use media instructions.

'-mmuladd'

     Use multiply and add/subtract instructions.

'-mno-muladd'

     Do not use multiply and add/subtract instructions.

'-mfdpic'

     Select the FDPIC ABI, which uses function descriptors to represent
     pointers to functions.  Without any PIC/PIE-related options, it
     implies '-fPIE'.  With '-fpic' or '-fpie', it assumes GOT entries
     and small data are within a 12-bit range from the GOT base address;
     with '-fPIC' or '-fPIE', GOT offsets are computed with 32 bits.
     With a 'bfin-elf' target, this option implies '-msim'.

'-minline-plt'

     Enable inlining of PLT entries in function calls to functions that
     are not known to bind locally.  It has no effect without '-mfdpic'.
     It's enabled by default if optimizing for speed and compiling for
     shared libraries (i.e., '-fPIC' or '-fpic'), or when an
     optimization option such as '-O3' or above is present in the
     command line.

'-mTLS'

     Assume a large TLS segment when generating thread-local code.

'-mtls'

     Do not assume a large TLS segment when generating thread-local
     code.

'-mgprel-ro'

     Enable the use of 'GPREL' relocations in the FDPIC ABI for data
     that is known to be in read-only sections.  It's enabled by
     default, except for '-fpic' or '-fpie': even though it may help
     make the global offset table smaller, it trades 1 instruction for
     4.  With '-fPIC' or '-fPIE', it trades 3 instructions for 4, one of
     which may be shared by multiple symbols, and it avoids the need for
     a GOT entry for the referenced symbol, so it's more likely to be a
     win.  If it is not, '-mno-gprel-ro' can be used to disable it.

'-multilib-library-pic'

     Link with the (library, not FD) pic libraries.  It's implied by
     '-mlibrary-pic', as well as by '-fPIC' and '-fpic' without
     '-mfdpic'.  You should never have to use it explicitly.

'-mlinked-fp'

     Follow the EABI requirement of always creating a frame pointer
     whenever a stack frame is allocated.  This option is enabled by
     default and can be disabled with '-mno-linked-fp'.

'-mlong-calls'

     Use indirect addressing to call functions outside the current
     compilation unit.  This allows the functions to be placed anywhere
     within the 32-bit address space.

'-malign-labels'

     Try to align labels to an 8-byte boundary by inserting NOPs into
     the previous packet.  This option only has an effect when VLIW
     packing is enabled.  It doesn't create new packets; it merely adds
     NOPs to existing ones.

'-mlibrary-pic'

     Generate position-independent EABI code.

'-macc-4'

     Use only the first four media accumulator registers.

'-macc-8'

     Use all eight media accumulator registers.

'-mpack'

     Pack VLIW instructions.

'-mno-pack'

     Do not pack VLIW instructions.

'-mno-eflags'

     Do not mark ABI switches in e_flags.

'-mcond-move'

     Enable the use of conditional-move instructions (default).

     This switch is mainly for debugging the compiler and will likely be
     removed in a future version.

'-mno-cond-move'

     Disable the use of conditional-move instructions.

     This switch is mainly for debugging the compiler and will likely be
     removed in a future version.

'-mscc'

     Enable the use of conditional set instructions (default).

     This switch is mainly for debugging the compiler and will likely be
     removed in a future version.

'-mno-scc'

     Disable the use of conditional set instructions.

     This switch is mainly for debugging the compiler and will likely be
     removed in a future version.

'-mcond-exec'

     Enable the use of conditional execution (default).

     This switch is mainly for debugging the compiler and will likely be
     removed in a future version.

'-mno-cond-exec'

     Disable the use of conditional execution.

     This switch is mainly for debugging the compiler and will likely be
     removed in a future version.

'-mvliw-branch'

     Run a pass to pack branches into VLIW instructions (default).

     This switch is mainly for debugging the compiler and will likely be
     removed in a future version.

'-mno-vliw-branch'

     Do not run a pass to pack branches into VLIW instructions.

     This switch is mainly for debugging the compiler and will likely be
     removed in a future version.

'-mmulti-cond-exec'

     Enable optimization of '&&' and '||' in conditional execution
     (default).

     This switch is mainly for debugging the compiler and will likely be
     removed in a future version.

'-mno-multi-cond-exec'

     Disable optimization of '&&' and '||' in conditional execution.

     This switch is mainly for debugging the compiler and will likely be
     removed in a future version.

'-mnested-cond-exec'

     Enable nested conditional execution optimizations (default).

     This switch is mainly for debugging the compiler and will likely be
     removed in a future version.

'-mno-nested-cond-exec'

     Disable nested conditional execution optimizations.

     This switch is mainly for debugging the compiler and will likely be
     removed in a future version.

'-moptimize-membar'

     This switch removes redundant 'membar' instructions from the
     compiler-generated code.  It is enabled by default.

'-mno-optimize-membar'

     This switch disables the automatic removal of redundant 'membar'
     instructions from the generated code.

'-mtomcat-stats'

     Cause gas to print out tomcat statistics.

'-mcpu=CPU'

     Select the processor type for which to generate code.  Possible
     values are 'frv', 'fr550', 'tomcat', 'fr500', 'fr450', 'fr405',
     'fr400', 'fr300' and 'simple'.

File: gcc.info,  Node: GNU/Linux Options,  Next: H8/300 Options,  Prev: FRV Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.17 GNU/Linux Options
-------------------------

These '-m' options are defined for GNU/Linux targets:

'-mglibc'
     Use the GNU C library.  This is the default except on
     '*-*-linux-*uclibc*', '*-*-linux-*musl*' and '*-*-linux-*android*'
     targets.

'-muclibc'
     Use uClibc C library.  This is the default on '*-*-linux-*uclibc*'
     targets.

'-mmusl'
     Use the musl C library.  This is the default on '*-*-linux-*musl*'
     targets.

'-mbionic'
     Use Bionic C library.  This is the default on '*-*-linux-*android*'
     targets.

'-mandroid'
     Compile code compatible with Android platform.  This is the default
     on '*-*-linux-*android*' targets.

     When compiling, this option enables '-mbionic', '-fPIC',
     '-fno-exceptions' and '-fno-rtti' by default.  When linking, this
     option makes the GCC driver pass Android-specific options to the
     linker.  Finally, this option causes the preprocessor macro
     '__ANDROID__' to be defined.

'-tno-android-cc'
     Disable compilation effects of '-mandroid', i.e., do not enable
     '-mbionic', '-fPIC', '-fno-exceptions' and '-fno-rtti' by default.

'-tno-android-ld'
     Disable linking effects of '-mandroid', i.e., pass standard Linux
     linking options to the linker.

File: gcc.info,  Node: H8/300 Options,  Next: HPPA Options,  Prev: GNU/Linux Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.18 H8/300 Options
----------------------

These '-m' options are defined for the H8/300 implementations:

'-mrelax'
     Shorten some address references at link time, when possible; uses
     the linker option '-relax'.  *Note 'ld' and the H8/300: (ld)H8/300,
     for a fuller description.

'-mh'
     Generate code for the H8/300H.

'-ms'
     Generate code for the H8S.

'-mn'
     Generate code for the H8S and H8/300H in the normal mode.  This
     switch must be used either with '-mh' or '-ms'.

'-ms2600'
     Generate code for the H8S/2600.  This switch must be used with
     '-ms'.

'-mexr'
     Extended registers are stored on stack before execution of function
     with monitor attribute.  Default option is '-mexr'.  This option is
     valid only for H8S targets.

'-mno-exr'
     Extended registers are not stored on stack before execution of
     function with monitor attribute.  Default option is '-mno-exr'.
     This option is valid only for H8S targets.

'-mint32'
     Make 'int' data 32 bits by default.

'-malign-300'
     On the H8/300H and H8S, use the same alignment rules as for the
     H8/300.  The default for the H8/300H and H8S is to align longs and
     floats on 4-byte boundaries.  '-malign-300' causes them to be
     aligned on 2-byte boundaries.  This option has no effect on the
     H8/300.

File: gcc.info,  Node: HPPA Options,  Next: IA-64 Options,  Prev: H8/300 Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.19 HPPA Options
--------------------

These '-m' options are defined for the HPPA family of computers:

'-march=ARCHITECTURE-TYPE'
     Generate code for the specified architecture.  The choices for
     ARCHITECTURE-TYPE are '1.0' for PA 1.0, '1.1' for PA 1.1, and '2.0'
     for PA 2.0 processors.  Refer to '/usr/lib/sched.models' on an
     HP-UX system to determine the proper architecture option for your
     machine.  Code compiled for lower numbered architectures runs on
     higher numbered architectures, but not the other way around.

'-mpa-risc-1-0'
'-mpa-risc-1-1'
'-mpa-risc-2-0'
     Synonyms for '-march=1.0', '-march=1.1', and '-march=2.0'
     respectively.

'-mcaller-copies'
     The caller copies function arguments passed by hidden reference.
     This option should be used with care as it is not compatible with
     the default 32-bit runtime.  However, only aggregates larger than
     eight bytes are passed by hidden reference and the option provides
     better compatibility with OpenMP.

'-mjump-in-delay'
     This option is ignored and provided for compatibility purposes
     only.

'-mdisable-fpregs'
     Prevent floating-point registers from being used in any manner.
     This is necessary for compiling kernels that perform lazy context
     switching of floating-point registers.  If you use this option and
     attempt to perform floating-point operations, the compiler aborts.

'-mdisable-indexing'
     Prevent the compiler from using indexing address modes.  This
     avoids some rather obscure problems when compiling MIG generated
     code under MACH.

'-mno-space-regs'
     Generate code that assumes the target has no space registers.  This
     allows GCC to generate faster indirect calls and use unscaled index
     address modes.

     Such code is suitable for level 0 PA systems and kernels.

'-mfast-indirect-calls'
     Generate code that assumes calls never cross space boundaries.
     This allows GCC to emit code that performs faster indirect calls.

     This option does not work in the presence of shared libraries or
     nested functions.

'-mfixed-range=REGISTER-RANGE'
     Generate code treating the given register range as fixed registers.
     A fixed register is one that the register allocator cannot use.
     This is useful when compiling kernel code.  A register range is
     specified as two registers separated by a dash.  Multiple register
     ranges can be specified separated by a comma.

'-mlong-load-store'
     Generate 3-instruction load and store sequences as sometimes
     required by the HP-UX 10 linker.  This is equivalent to the '+k'
     option to the HP compilers.

'-mportable-runtime'
     Use the portable calling conventions proposed by HP for ELF
     systems.

'-mgas'
     Enable the use of assembler directives only GAS understands.

'-mschedule=CPU-TYPE'
     Schedule code according to the constraints for the machine type
     CPU-TYPE.  The choices for CPU-TYPE are '700' '7100', '7100LC',
     '7200', '7300' and '8000'.  Refer to '/usr/lib/sched.models' on an
     HP-UX system to determine the proper scheduling option for your
     machine.  The default scheduling is '8000'.

'-mlinker-opt'
     Enable the optimization pass in the HP-UX linker.  Note this makes
     symbolic debugging impossible.  It also triggers a bug in the HP-UX
     8 and HP-UX 9 linkers in which they give bogus error messages when
     linking some programs.

'-msoft-float'
     Generate output containing library calls for floating point.
     *Warning:* the requisite libraries are not available for all HPPA
     targets.  Normally the facilities of the machine's usual C compiler
     are used, but this cannot be done directly in cross-compilation.
     You must make your own arrangements to provide suitable library
     functions for cross-compilation.

     '-msoft-float' changes the calling convention in the output file;
     therefore, it is only useful if you compile _all_ of a program with
     this option.  In particular, you need to compile 'libgcc.a', the
     library that comes with GCC, with '-msoft-float' in order for this
     to work.

'-msio'
     Generate the predefine, '_SIO', for server IO.  The default is
     '-mwsio'.  This generates the predefines, '__hp9000s700',
     '__hp9000s700__' and '_WSIO', for workstation IO.  These options
     are available under HP-UX and HI-UX.

'-mgnu-ld'
     Use options specific to GNU 'ld'.  This passes '-shared' to 'ld'
     when building a shared library.  It is the default when GCC is
     configured, explicitly or implicitly, with the GNU linker.  This
     option does not affect which 'ld' is called; it only changes what
     parameters are passed to that 'ld'.  The 'ld' that is called is
     determined by the '--with-ld' configure option, GCC's program
     search path, and finally by the user's 'PATH'.  The linker used by
     GCC can be printed using 'which `gcc -print-prog-name=ld`'.  This
     option is only available on the 64-bit HP-UX GCC, i.e. configured
     with 'hppa*64*-*-hpux*'.

'-mhp-ld'
     Use options specific to HP 'ld'.  This passes '-b' to 'ld' when
     building a shared library and passes '+Accept TypeMismatch' to 'ld'
     on all links.  It is the default when GCC is configured, explicitly
     or implicitly, with the HP linker.  This option does not affect
     which 'ld' is called; it only changes what parameters are passed to
     that 'ld'.  The 'ld' that is called is determined by the
     '--with-ld' configure option, GCC's program search path, and
     finally by the user's 'PATH'.  The linker used by GCC can be
     printed using 'which `gcc -print-prog-name=ld`'.  This option is
     only available on the 64-bit HP-UX GCC, i.e. configured with
     'hppa*64*-*-hpux*'.

'-mlong-calls'
     Generate code that uses long call sequences.  This ensures that a
     call is always able to reach linker generated stubs.  The default
     is to generate long calls only when the distance from the call site
     to the beginning of the function or translation unit, as the case
     may be, exceeds a predefined limit set by the branch type being
     used.  The limits for normal calls are 7,600,000 and 240,000 bytes,
     respectively for the PA 2.0 and PA 1.X architectures.  Sibcalls are
     always limited at 240,000 bytes.

     Distances are measured from the beginning of functions when using
     the '-ffunction-sections' option, or when using the '-mgas' and
     '-mno-portable-runtime' options together under HP-UX with the SOM
     linker.

     It is normally not desirable to use this option as it degrades
     performance.  However, it may be useful in large applications,
     particularly when partial linking is used to build the application.

     The types of long calls used depends on the capabilities of the
     assembler and linker, and the type of code being generated.  The
     impact on systems that support long absolute calls, and long pic
     symbol-difference or pc-relative calls should be relatively small.
     However, an indirect call is used on 32-bit ELF systems in pic code
     and it is quite long.

'-munix=UNIX-STD'
     Generate compiler predefines and select a startfile for the
     specified UNIX standard.  The choices for UNIX-STD are '93', '95'
     and '98'.  '93' is supported on all HP-UX versions.  '95' is
     available on HP-UX 10.10 and later.  '98' is available on HP-UX
     11.11 and later.  The default values are '93' for HP-UX 10.00, '95'
     for HP-UX 10.10 though to 11.00, and '98' for HP-UX 11.11 and
     later.

     '-munix=93' provides the same predefines as GCC 3.3 and 3.4.
     '-munix=95' provides additional predefines for 'XOPEN_UNIX' and
     '_XOPEN_SOURCE_EXTENDED', and the startfile 'unix95.o'.
     '-munix=98' provides additional predefines for '_XOPEN_UNIX',
     '_XOPEN_SOURCE_EXTENDED', '_INCLUDE__STDC_A1_SOURCE' and
     '_INCLUDE_XOPEN_SOURCE_500', and the startfile 'unix98.o'.

     It is _important_ to note that this option changes the interfaces
     for various library routines.  It also affects the operational
     behavior of the C library.  Thus, _extreme_ care is needed in using
     this option.

     Library code that is intended to operate with more than one UNIX
     standard must test, set and restore the variable
     '__xpg4_extended_mask' as appropriate.  Most GNU software doesn't
     provide this capability.

'-nolibdld'
     Suppress the generation of link options to search libdld.sl when
     the '-static' option is specified on HP-UX 10 and later.

'-static'
     The HP-UX implementation of setlocale in libc has a dependency on
     libdld.sl.  There isn't an archive version of libdld.sl.  Thus,
     when the '-static' option is specified, special link options are
     needed to resolve this dependency.

     On HP-UX 10 and later, the GCC driver adds the necessary options to
     link with libdld.sl when the '-static' option is specified.  This
     causes the resulting binary to be dynamic.  On the 64-bit port, the
     linkers generate dynamic binaries by default in any case.  The
     '-nolibdld' option can be used to prevent the GCC driver from
     adding these link options.

'-threads'
     Add support for multithreading with the "dce thread" library under
     HP-UX.  This option sets flags for both the preprocessor and
     linker.

File: gcc.info,  Node: IA-64 Options,  Next: LM32 Options,  Prev: HPPA Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.20 IA-64 Options
---------------------

These are the '-m' options defined for the Intel IA-64 architecture.

'-mbig-endian'
     Generate code for a big-endian target.  This is the default for
     HP-UX.

'-mlittle-endian'
     Generate code for a little-endian target.  This is the default for
     AIX5 and GNU/Linux.

'-mgnu-as'
'-mno-gnu-as'
     Generate (or don't) code for the GNU assembler.  This is the
     default.

'-mgnu-ld'
'-mno-gnu-ld'
     Generate (or don't) code for the GNU linker.  This is the default.

'-mno-pic'
     Generate code that does not use a global pointer register.  The
     result is not position independent code, and violates the IA-64
     ABI.

'-mvolatile-asm-stop'
'-mno-volatile-asm-stop'
     Generate (or don't) a stop bit immediately before and after
     volatile asm statements.

'-mregister-names'
'-mno-register-names'
     Generate (or don't) 'in', 'loc', and 'out' register names for the
     stacked registers.  This may make assembler output more readable.

'-mno-sdata'
'-msdata'
     Disable (or enable) optimizations that use the small data section.
     This may be useful for working around optimizer bugs.

'-mconstant-gp'
     Generate code that uses a single constant global pointer value.
     This is useful when compiling kernel code.

'-mauto-pic'
     Generate code that is self-relocatable.  This implies
     '-mconstant-gp'.  This is useful when compiling firmware code.

'-minline-float-divide-min-latency'
     Generate code for inline divides of floating-point values using the
     minimum latency algorithm.

'-minline-float-divide-max-throughput'
     Generate code for inline divides of floating-point values using the
     maximum throughput algorithm.

'-mno-inline-float-divide'
     Do not generate inline code for divides of floating-point values.

'-minline-int-divide-min-latency'
     Generate code for inline divides of integer values using the
     minimum latency algorithm.

'-minline-int-divide-max-throughput'
     Generate code for inline divides of integer values using the
     maximum throughput algorithm.

'-mno-inline-int-divide'
     Do not generate inline code for divides of integer values.

'-minline-sqrt-min-latency'
     Generate code for inline square roots using the minimum latency
     algorithm.

'-minline-sqrt-max-throughput'
     Generate code for inline square roots using the maximum throughput
     algorithm.

'-mno-inline-sqrt'
     Do not generate inline code for 'sqrt'.

'-mfused-madd'
'-mno-fused-madd'
     Do (don't) generate code that uses the fused multiply/add or
     multiply/subtract instructions.  The default is to use these
     instructions.

'-mno-dwarf2-asm'
'-mdwarf2-asm'
     Don't (or do) generate assembler code for the DWARF line number
     debugging info.  This may be useful when not using the GNU
     assembler.

'-mearly-stop-bits'
'-mno-early-stop-bits'
     Allow stop bits to be placed earlier than immediately preceding the
     instruction that triggered the stop bit.  This can improve
     instruction scheduling, but does not always do so.

'-mfixed-range=REGISTER-RANGE'
     Generate code treating the given register range as fixed registers.
     A fixed register is one that the register allocator cannot use.
     This is useful when compiling kernel code.  A register range is
     specified as two registers separated by a dash.  Multiple register
     ranges can be specified separated by a comma.

'-mtls-size=TLS-SIZE'
     Specify bit size of immediate TLS offsets.  Valid values are 14,
     22, and 64.

'-mtune=CPU-TYPE'
     Tune the instruction scheduling for a particular CPU, Valid values
     are 'itanium', 'itanium1', 'merced', 'itanium2', and 'mckinley'.

'-milp32'
'-mlp64'
     Generate code for a 32-bit or 64-bit environment.  The 32-bit
     environment sets int, long and pointer to 32 bits.  The 64-bit
     environment sets int to 32 bits and long and pointer to 64 bits.
     These are HP-UX specific flags.

'-mno-sched-br-data-spec'
'-msched-br-data-spec'
     (Dis/En)able data speculative scheduling before reload.  This
     results in generation of 'ld.a' instructions and the corresponding
     check instructions ('ld.c' / 'chk.a').  The default setting is
     disabled.

'-msched-ar-data-spec'
'-mno-sched-ar-data-spec'
     (En/Dis)able data speculative scheduling after reload.  This
     results in generation of 'ld.a' instructions and the corresponding
     check instructions ('ld.c' / 'chk.a').  The default setting is
     enabled.

'-mno-sched-control-spec'
'-msched-control-spec'
     (Dis/En)able control speculative scheduling.  This feature is
     available only during region scheduling (i.e. before reload).  This
     results in generation of the 'ld.s' instructions and the
     corresponding check instructions 'chk.s'.  The default setting is
     disabled.

'-msched-br-in-data-spec'
'-mno-sched-br-in-data-spec'
     (En/Dis)able speculative scheduling of the instructions that are
     dependent on the data speculative loads before reload.  This is
     effective only with '-msched-br-data-spec' enabled.  The default
     setting is enabled.

'-msched-ar-in-data-spec'
'-mno-sched-ar-in-data-spec'
     (En/Dis)able speculative scheduling of the instructions that are
     dependent on the data speculative loads after reload.  This is
     effective only with '-msched-ar-data-spec' enabled.  The default
     setting is enabled.

'-msched-in-control-spec'
'-mno-sched-in-control-spec'
     (En/Dis)able speculative scheduling of the instructions that are
     dependent on the control speculative loads.  This is effective only
     with '-msched-control-spec' enabled.  The default setting is
     enabled.

'-mno-sched-prefer-non-data-spec-insns'
'-msched-prefer-non-data-spec-insns'
     If enabled, data-speculative instructions are chosen for schedule
     only if there are no other choices at the moment.  This makes the
     use of the data speculation much more conservative.  The default
     setting is disabled.

'-mno-sched-prefer-non-control-spec-insns'
'-msched-prefer-non-control-spec-insns'
     If enabled, control-speculative instructions are chosen for
     schedule only if there are no other choices at the moment.  This
     makes the use of the control speculation much more conservative.
     The default setting is disabled.

'-mno-sched-count-spec-in-critical-path'
'-msched-count-spec-in-critical-path'
     If enabled, speculative dependencies are considered during
     computation of the instructions priorities.  This makes the use of
     the speculation a bit more conservative.  The default setting is
     disabled.

'-msched-spec-ldc'
     Use a simple data speculation check.  This option is on by default.

'-msched-control-spec-ldc'
     Use a simple check for control speculation.  This option is on by
     default.

'-msched-stop-bits-after-every-cycle'
     Place a stop bit after every cycle when scheduling.  This option is
     on by default.

'-msched-fp-mem-deps-zero-cost'
     Assume that floating-point stores and loads are not likely to cause
     a conflict when placed into the same instruction group.  This
     option is disabled by default.

'-msel-sched-dont-check-control-spec'
     Generate checks for control speculation in selective scheduling.
     This flag is disabled by default.

'-msched-max-memory-insns=MAX-INSNS'
     Limit on the number of memory insns per instruction group, giving
     lower priority to subsequent memory insns attempting to schedule in
     the same instruction group.  Frequently useful to prevent cache
     bank conflicts.  The default value is 1.

'-msched-max-memory-insns-hard-limit'
     Makes the limit specified by 'msched-max-memory-insns' a hard
     limit, disallowing more than that number in an instruction group.
     Otherwise, the limit is "soft", meaning that non-memory operations
     are preferred when the limit is reached, but memory operations may
     still be scheduled.

File: gcc.info,  Node: LM32 Options,  Next: M32C Options,  Prev: IA-64 Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.21 LM32 Options
--------------------

These '-m' options are defined for the LatticeMico32 architecture:

'-mbarrel-shift-enabled'
     Enable barrel-shift instructions.

'-mdivide-enabled'
     Enable divide and modulus instructions.

'-mmultiply-enabled'
     Enable multiply instructions.

'-msign-extend-enabled'
     Enable sign extend instructions.

'-muser-enabled'
     Enable user-defined instructions.

File: gcc.info,  Node: M32C Options,  Next: M32R/D Options,  Prev: LM32 Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.22 M32C Options
--------------------

'-mcpu=NAME'
     Select the CPU for which code is generated.  NAME may be one of
     'r8c' for the R8C/Tiny series, 'm16c' for the M16C (up to /60)
     series, 'm32cm' for the M16C/80 series, or 'm32c' for the M32C/80
     series.

'-msim'
     Specifies that the program will be run on the simulator.  This
     causes an alternate runtime library to be linked in which supports,
     for example, file I/O.  You must not use this option when
     generating programs that will run on real hardware; you must
     provide your own runtime library for whatever I/O functions are
     needed.

'-memregs=NUMBER'
     Specifies the number of memory-based pseudo-registers GCC uses
     during code generation.  These pseudo-registers are used like real
     registers, so there is a tradeoff between GCC's ability to fit the
     code into available registers, and the performance penalty of using
     memory instead of registers.  Note that all modules in a program
     must be compiled with the same value for this option.  Because of
     that, you must not use this option with GCC's default runtime
     libraries.

File: gcc.info,  Node: M32R/D Options,  Next: M680x0 Options,  Prev: M32C Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.23 M32R/D Options
----------------------

These '-m' options are defined for Renesas M32R/D architectures:

'-m32r2'
     Generate code for the M32R/2.

'-m32rx'
     Generate code for the M32R/X.

'-m32r'
     Generate code for the M32R.  This is the default.

'-mmodel=small'
     Assume all objects live in the lower 16MB of memory (so that their
     addresses can be loaded with the 'ld24' instruction), and assume
     all subroutines are reachable with the 'bl' instruction.  This is
     the default.

     The addressability of a particular object can be set with the
     'model' attribute.

'-mmodel=medium'
     Assume objects may be anywhere in the 32-bit address space (the
     compiler generates 'seth/add3' instructions to load their
     addresses), and assume all subroutines are reachable with the 'bl'
     instruction.

'-mmodel=large'
     Assume objects may be anywhere in the 32-bit address space (the
     compiler generates 'seth/add3' instructions to load their
     addresses), and assume subroutines may not be reachable with the
     'bl' instruction (the compiler generates the much slower
     'seth/add3/jl' instruction sequence).

'-msdata=none'
     Disable use of the small data area.  Variables are put into one of
     '.data', '.bss', or '.rodata' (unless the 'section' attribute has
     been specified).  This is the default.

     The small data area consists of sections '.sdata' and '.sbss'.
     Objects may be explicitly put in the small data area with the
     'section' attribute using one of these sections.

'-msdata=sdata'
     Put small global and static data in the small data area, but do not
     generate special code to reference them.

'-msdata=use'
     Put small global and static data in the small data area, and
     generate special instructions to reference them.

'-G NUM'
     Put global and static objects less than or equal to NUM bytes into
     the small data or BSS sections instead of the normal data or BSS
     sections.  The default value of NUM is 8.  The '-msdata' option
     must be set to one of 'sdata' or 'use' for this option to have any
     effect.

     All modules should be compiled with the same '-G NUM' value.
     Compiling with different values of NUM may or may not work; if it
     doesn't the linker gives an error message--incorrect code is not
     generated.

'-mdebug'
     Makes the M32R-specific code in the compiler display some
     statistics that might help in debugging programs.

'-malign-loops'
     Align all loops to a 32-byte boundary.

'-mno-align-loops'
     Do not enforce a 32-byte alignment for loops.  This is the default.

'-missue-rate=NUMBER'
     Issue NUMBER instructions per cycle.  NUMBER can only be 1 or 2.

'-mbranch-cost=NUMBER'
     NUMBER can only be 1 or 2.  If it is 1 then branches are preferred
     over conditional code, if it is 2, then the opposite applies.

'-mflush-trap=NUMBER'
     Specifies the trap number to use to flush the cache.  The default
     is 12.  Valid numbers are between 0 and 15 inclusive.

'-mno-flush-trap'
     Specifies that the cache cannot be flushed by using a trap.

'-mflush-func=NAME'
     Specifies the name of the operating system function to call to
     flush the cache.  The default is '_flush_cache', but a function
     call is only used if a trap is not available.

'-mno-flush-func'
     Indicates that there is no OS function for flushing the cache.

File: gcc.info,  Node: M680x0 Options,  Next: MCore Options,  Prev: M32R/D Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.24 M680x0 Options
----------------------

These are the '-m' options defined for M680x0 and ColdFire processors.
The default settings depend on which architecture was selected when the
compiler was configured; the defaults for the most common choices are
given below.

'-march=ARCH'
     Generate code for a specific M680x0 or ColdFire instruction set
     architecture.  Permissible values of ARCH for M680x0 architectures
     are: '68000', '68010', '68020', '68030', '68040', '68060' and
     'cpu32'.  ColdFire architectures are selected according to
     Freescale's ISA classification and the permissible values are:
     'isaa', 'isaaplus', 'isab' and 'isac'.

     GCC defines a macro '__mcfARCH__' whenever it is generating code
     for a ColdFire target.  The ARCH in this macro is one of the
     '-march' arguments given above.

     When used together, '-march' and '-mtune' select code that runs on
     a family of similar processors but that is optimized for a
     particular microarchitecture.

'-mcpu=CPU'
     Generate code for a specific M680x0 or ColdFire processor.  The
     M680x0 CPUs are: '68000', '68010', '68020', '68030', '68040',
     '68060', '68302', '68332' and 'cpu32'.  The ColdFire CPUs are given
     by the table below, which also classifies the CPUs into families:

     *Family*       *'-mcpu' arguments*
     '51'           '51' '51ac' '51ag' '51cn' '51em' '51je' '51jf' '51jg'
                    '51jm' '51mm' '51qe' '51qm'
     '5206'         '5202' '5204' '5206'
     '5206e'        '5206e'
     '5208'         '5207' '5208'
     '5211a'        '5210a' '5211a'
     '5213'         '5211' '5212' '5213'
     '5216'         '5214' '5216'
     '52235'        '52230' '52231' '52232' '52233' '52234' '52235'
     '5225'         '5224' '5225'
     '52259'        '52252' '52254' '52255' '52256' '52258' '52259'
     '5235'         '5232' '5233' '5234' '5235' '523x'
     '5249'         '5249'
     '5250'         '5250'
     '5271'         '5270' '5271'
     '5272'         '5272'
     '5275'         '5274' '5275'
     '5282'         '5280' '5281' '5282' '528x'
     '53017'        '53011' '53012' '53013' '53014' '53015' '53016' '53017'
     '5307'         '5307'
     '5329'         '5327' '5328' '5329' '532x'
     '5373'         '5372' '5373' '537x'
     '5407'         '5407'
     '5475'         '5470' '5471' '5472' '5473' '5474' '5475' '547x' '5480'
                    '5481' '5482' '5483' '5484' '5485'

     '-mcpu=CPU' overrides '-march=ARCH' if ARCH is compatible with CPU.
     Other combinations of '-mcpu' and '-march' are rejected.

     GCC defines the macro '__mcf_cpu_CPU' when ColdFire target CPU is
     selected.  It also defines '__mcf_family_FAMILY', where the value
     of FAMILY is given by the table above.

'-mtune=TUNE'
     Tune the code for a particular microarchitecture within the
     constraints set by '-march' and '-mcpu'.  The M680x0
     microarchitectures are: '68000', '68010', '68020', '68030',
     '68040', '68060' and 'cpu32'.  The ColdFire microarchitectures are:
     'cfv1', 'cfv2', 'cfv3', 'cfv4' and 'cfv4e'.

     You can also use '-mtune=68020-40' for code that needs to run
     relatively well on 68020, 68030 and 68040 targets.
     '-mtune=68020-60' is similar but includes 68060 targets as well.
     These two options select the same tuning decisions as '-m68020-40'
     and '-m68020-60' respectively.

     GCC defines the macros '__mcARCH' and '__mcARCH__' when tuning for
     680x0 architecture ARCH.  It also defines 'mcARCH' unless either
     '-ansi' or a non-GNU '-std' option is used.  If GCC is tuning for a
     range of architectures, as selected by '-mtune=68020-40' or
     '-mtune=68020-60', it defines the macros for every architecture in
     the range.

     GCC also defines the macro '__mUARCH__' when tuning for ColdFire
     microarchitecture UARCH, where UARCH is one of the arguments given
     above.

'-m68000'
'-mc68000'
     Generate output for a 68000.  This is the default when the compiler
     is configured for 68000-based systems.  It is equivalent to
     '-march=68000'.

     Use this option for microcontrollers with a 68000 or EC000 core,
     including the 68008, 68302, 68306, 68307, 68322, 68328 and 68356.

'-m68010'
     Generate output for a 68010.  This is the default when the compiler
     is configured for 68010-based systems.  It is equivalent to
     '-march=68010'.

'-m68020'
'-mc68020'
     Generate output for a 68020.  This is the default when the compiler
     is configured for 68020-based systems.  It is equivalent to
     '-march=68020'.

'-m68030'
     Generate output for a 68030.  This is the default when the compiler
     is configured for 68030-based systems.  It is equivalent to
     '-march=68030'.

'-m68040'
     Generate output for a 68040.  This is the default when the compiler
     is configured for 68040-based systems.  It is equivalent to
     '-march=68040'.

     This option inhibits the use of 68881/68882 instructions that have
     to be emulated by software on the 68040.  Use this option if your
     68040 does not have code to emulate those instructions.

'-m68060'
     Generate output for a 68060.  This is the default when the compiler
     is configured for 68060-based systems.  It is equivalent to
     '-march=68060'.

     This option inhibits the use of 68020 and 68881/68882 instructions
     that have to be emulated by software on the 68060.  Use this option
     if your 68060 does not have code to emulate those instructions.

'-mcpu32'
     Generate output for a CPU32.  This is the default when the compiler
     is configured for CPU32-based systems.  It is equivalent to
     '-march=cpu32'.

     Use this option for microcontrollers with a CPU32 or CPU32+ core,
     including the 68330, 68331, 68332, 68333, 68334, 68336, 68340,
     68341, 68349 and 68360.

'-m5200'
     Generate output for a 520X ColdFire CPU.  This is the default when
     the compiler is configured for 520X-based systems.  It is
     equivalent to '-mcpu=5206', and is now deprecated in favor of that
     option.

     Use this option for microcontroller with a 5200 core, including the
     MCF5202, MCF5203, MCF5204 and MCF5206.

'-m5206e'
     Generate output for a 5206e ColdFire CPU.  The option is now
     deprecated in favor of the equivalent '-mcpu=5206e'.

'-m528x'
     Generate output for a member of the ColdFire 528X family.  The
     option is now deprecated in favor of the equivalent '-mcpu=528x'.

'-m5307'
     Generate output for a ColdFire 5307 CPU.  The option is now
     deprecated in favor of the equivalent '-mcpu=5307'.

'-m5407'
     Generate output for a ColdFire 5407 CPU.  The option is now
     deprecated in favor of the equivalent '-mcpu=5407'.

'-mcfv4e'
     Generate output for a ColdFire V4e family CPU (e.g. 547x/548x).
     This includes use of hardware floating-point instructions.  The
     option is equivalent to '-mcpu=547x', and is now deprecated in
     favor of that option.

'-m68020-40'
     Generate output for a 68040, without using any of the new
     instructions.  This results in code that can run relatively
     efficiently on either a 68020/68881 or a 68030 or a 68040.  The
     generated code does use the 68881 instructions that are emulated on
     the 68040.

     The option is equivalent to '-march=68020' '-mtune=68020-40'.

'-m68020-60'
     Generate output for a 68060, without using any of the new
     instructions.  This results in code that can run relatively
     efficiently on either a 68020/68881 or a 68030 or a 68040.  The
     generated code does use the 68881 instructions that are emulated on
     the 68060.

     The option is equivalent to '-march=68020' '-mtune=68020-60'.

'-mhard-float'
'-m68881'
     Generate floating-point instructions.  This is the default for
     68020 and above, and for ColdFire devices that have an FPU.  It
     defines the macro '__HAVE_68881__' on M680x0 targets and
     '__mcffpu__' on ColdFire targets.

'-msoft-float'
     Do not generate floating-point instructions; use library calls
     instead.  This is the default for 68000, 68010, and 68832 targets.
     It is also the default for ColdFire devices that have no FPU.

'-mdiv'
'-mno-div'
     Generate (do not generate) ColdFire hardware divide and remainder
     instructions.  If '-march' is used without '-mcpu', the default is
     "on" for ColdFire architectures and "off" for M680x0 architectures.
     Otherwise, the default is taken from the target CPU (either the
     default CPU, or the one specified by '-mcpu').  For example, the
     default is "off" for '-mcpu=5206' and "on" for '-mcpu=5206e'.

     GCC defines the macro '__mcfhwdiv__' when this option is enabled.

'-mshort'
     Consider type 'int' to be 16 bits wide, like 'short int'.
     Additionally, parameters passed on the stack are also aligned to a
     16-bit boundary even on targets whose API mandates promotion to
     32-bit.

'-mno-short'
     Do not consider type 'int' to be 16 bits wide.  This is the
     default.

'-mnobitfield'
'-mno-bitfield'
     Do not use the bit-field instructions.  The '-m68000', '-mcpu32'
     and '-m5200' options imply '-mnobitfield'.

'-mbitfield'
     Do use the bit-field instructions.  The '-m68020' option implies
     '-mbitfield'.  This is the default if you use a configuration
     designed for a 68020.

'-mrtd'
     Use a different function-calling convention, in which functions
     that take a fixed number of arguments return with the 'rtd'
     instruction, which pops their arguments while returning.  This
     saves one instruction in the caller since there is no need to pop
     the arguments there.

     This calling convention is incompatible with the one normally used
     on Unix, so you cannot use it if you need to call libraries
     compiled with the Unix compiler.

     Also, you must provide function prototypes for all functions that
     take variable numbers of arguments (including 'printf'); otherwise
     incorrect code is generated for calls to those functions.

     In addition, seriously incorrect code results if you call a
     function with too many arguments.  (Normally, extra arguments are
     harmlessly ignored.)

     The 'rtd' instruction is supported by the 68010, 68020, 68030,
     68040, 68060 and CPU32 processors, but not by the 68000 or 5200.

     The default is '-mno-rtd'.

'-malign-int'
'-mno-align-int'
     Control whether GCC aligns 'int', 'long', 'long long', 'float',
     'double', and 'long double' variables on a 32-bit boundary
     ('-malign-int') or a 16-bit boundary ('-mno-align-int').  Aligning
     variables on 32-bit boundaries produces code that runs somewhat
     faster on processors with 32-bit busses at the expense of more
     memory.

     *Warning:* if you use the '-malign-int' switch, GCC aligns
     structures containing the above types differently than most
     published application binary interface specifications for the m68k.

'-mpcrel'
     Use the pc-relative addressing mode of the 68000 directly, instead
     of using a global offset table.  At present, this option implies
     '-fpic', allowing at most a 16-bit offset for pc-relative
     addressing.  '-fPIC' is not presently supported with '-mpcrel',
     though this could be supported for 68020 and higher processors.

'-mno-strict-align'
'-mstrict-align'
     Do not (do) assume that unaligned memory references are handled by
     the system.

'-msep-data'
     Generate code that allows the data segment to be located in a
     different area of memory from the text segment.  This allows for
     execute-in-place in an environment without virtual memory
     management.  This option implies '-fPIC'.

'-mno-sep-data'
     Generate code that assumes that the data segment follows the text
     segment.  This is the default.

'-mid-shared-library'
     Generate code that supports shared libraries via the library ID
     method.  This allows for execute-in-place and shared libraries in
     an environment without virtual memory management.  This option
     implies '-fPIC'.

'-mno-id-shared-library'
     Generate code that doesn't assume ID-based shared libraries are
     being used.  This is the default.

'-mshared-library-id=n'
     Specifies the identification number of the ID-based shared library
     being compiled.  Specifying a value of 0 generates more compact
     code; specifying other values forces the allocation of that number
     to the current library, but is no more space- or time-efficient
     than omitting this option.

'-mxgot'
'-mno-xgot'
     When generating position-independent code for ColdFire, generate
     code that works if the GOT has more than 8192 entries.  This code
     is larger and slower than code generated without this option.  On
     M680x0 processors, this option is not needed; '-fPIC' suffices.

     GCC normally uses a single instruction to load values from the GOT.
     While this is relatively efficient, it only works if the GOT is
     smaller than about 64k.  Anything larger causes the linker to
     report an error such as:

          relocation truncated to fit: R_68K_GOT16O foobar

     If this happens, you should recompile your code with '-mxgot'.  It
     should then work with very large GOTs.  However, code generated
     with '-mxgot' is less efficient, since it takes 4 instructions to
     fetch the value of a global symbol.

     Note that some linkers, including newer versions of the GNU linker,
     can create multiple GOTs and sort GOT entries.  If you have such a
     linker, you should only need to use '-mxgot' when compiling a
     single object file that accesses more than 8192 GOT entries.  Very
     few do.

     These options have no effect unless GCC is generating
     position-independent code.

'-mlong-jump-table-offsets'
     Use 32-bit offsets in 'switch' tables.  The default is to use
     16-bit offsets.

File: gcc.info,  Node: MCore Options,  Next: MeP Options,  Prev: M680x0 Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.25 MCore Options
---------------------

These are the '-m' options defined for the Motorola M*Core processors.

'-mhardlit'
'-mno-hardlit'
     Inline constants into the code stream if it can be done in two
     instructions or less.

'-mdiv'
'-mno-div'
     Use the divide instruction.  (Enabled by default).

'-mrelax-immediate'
'-mno-relax-immediate'
     Allow arbitrary-sized immediates in bit operations.

'-mwide-bitfields'
'-mno-wide-bitfields'
     Always treat bit-fields as 'int'-sized.

'-m4byte-functions'
'-mno-4byte-functions'
     Force all functions to be aligned to a 4-byte boundary.

'-mcallgraph-data'
'-mno-callgraph-data'
     Emit callgraph information.

'-mslow-bytes'
'-mno-slow-bytes'
     Prefer word access when reading byte quantities.

'-mlittle-endian'
'-mbig-endian'
     Generate code for a little-endian target.

'-m210'
'-m340'
     Generate code for the 210 processor.

'-mno-lsim'
     Assume that runtime support has been provided and so omit the
     simulator library ('libsim.a)' from the linker command line.

'-mstack-increment=SIZE'
     Set the maximum amount for a single stack increment operation.
     Large values can increase the speed of programs that contain
     functions that need a large amount of stack space, but they can
     also trigger a segmentation fault if the stack is extended too
     much.  The default value is 0x1000.

File: gcc.info,  Node: MeP Options,  Next: MicroBlaze Options,  Prev: MCore Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.26 MeP Options
-------------------

'-mabsdiff'
     Enables the 'abs' instruction, which is the absolute difference
     between two registers.

'-mall-opts'
     Enables all the optional instructions--average, multiply, divide,
     bit operations, leading zero, absolute difference, min/max, clip,
     and saturation.

'-maverage'
     Enables the 'ave' instruction, which computes the average of two
     registers.

'-mbased=N'
     Variables of size N bytes or smaller are placed in the '.based'
     section by default.  Based variables use the '$tp' register as a
     base register, and there is a 128-byte limit to the '.based'
     section.

'-mbitops'
     Enables the bit operation instructions--bit test ('btstm'), set
     ('bsetm'), clear ('bclrm'), invert ('bnotm'), and test-and-set
     ('tas').

'-mc=NAME'
     Selects which section constant data is placed in.  NAME may be
     'tiny', 'near', or 'far'.

'-mclip'
     Enables the 'clip' instruction.  Note that '-mclip' is not useful
     unless you also provide '-mminmax'.

'-mconfig=NAME'
     Selects one of the built-in core configurations.  Each MeP chip has
     one or more modules in it; each module has a core CPU and a variety
     of coprocessors, optional instructions, and peripherals.  The
     'MeP-Integrator' tool, not part of GCC, provides these
     configurations through this option; using this option is the same
     as using all the corresponding command-line options.  The default
     configuration is 'default'.

'-mcop'
     Enables the coprocessor instructions.  By default, this is a 32-bit
     coprocessor.  Note that the coprocessor is normally enabled via the
     '-mconfig=' option.

'-mcop32'
     Enables the 32-bit coprocessor's instructions.

'-mcop64'
     Enables the 64-bit coprocessor's instructions.

'-mivc2'
     Enables IVC2 scheduling.  IVC2 is a 64-bit VLIW coprocessor.

'-mdc'
     Causes constant variables to be placed in the '.near' section.

'-mdiv'
     Enables the 'div' and 'divu' instructions.

'-meb'
     Generate big-endian code.

'-mel'
     Generate little-endian code.

'-mio-volatile'
     Tells the compiler that any variable marked with the 'io' attribute
     is to be considered volatile.

'-ml'
     Causes variables to be assigned to the '.far' section by default.

'-mleadz'
     Enables the 'leadz' (leading zero) instruction.

'-mm'
     Causes variables to be assigned to the '.near' section by default.

'-mminmax'
     Enables the 'min' and 'max' instructions.

'-mmult'
     Enables the multiplication and multiply-accumulate instructions.

'-mno-opts'
     Disables all the optional instructions enabled by '-mall-opts'.

'-mrepeat'
     Enables the 'repeat' and 'erepeat' instructions, used for
     low-overhead looping.

'-ms'
     Causes all variables to default to the '.tiny' section.  Note that
     there is a 65536-byte limit to this section.  Accesses to these
     variables use the '%gp' base register.

'-msatur'
     Enables the saturation instructions.  Note that the compiler does
     not currently generate these itself, but this option is included
     for compatibility with other tools, like 'as'.

'-msdram'
     Link the SDRAM-based runtime instead of the default ROM-based
     runtime.

'-msim'
     Link the simulator run-time libraries.

'-msimnovec'
     Link the simulator runtime libraries, excluding built-in support
     for reset and exception vectors and tables.

'-mtf'
     Causes all functions to default to the '.far' section.  Without
     this option, functions default to the '.near' section.

'-mtiny=N'
     Variables that are N bytes or smaller are allocated to the '.tiny'
     section.  These variables use the '$gp' base register.  The default
     for this option is 4, but note that there's a 65536-byte limit to
     the '.tiny' section.

File: gcc.info,  Node: MicroBlaze Options,  Next: MIPS Options,  Prev: MeP Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.27 MicroBlaze Options
--------------------------

'-msoft-float'
     Use software emulation for floating point (default).

'-mhard-float'
     Use hardware floating-point instructions.

'-mmemcpy'
     Do not optimize block moves, use 'memcpy'.

'-mno-clearbss'
     This option is deprecated.  Use '-fno-zero-initialized-in-bss'
     instead.

'-mcpu=CPU-TYPE'
     Use features of, and schedule code for, the given CPU. Supported
     values are in the format 'vX.YY.Z', where X is a major version, YY
     is the minor version, and Z is compatibility code.  Example values
     are 'v3.00.a', 'v4.00.b', 'v5.00.a', 'v5.00.b', 'v6.00.a'.

'-mxl-soft-mul'
     Use software multiply emulation (default).

'-mxl-soft-div'
     Use software emulation for divides (default).

'-mxl-barrel-shift'
     Use the hardware barrel shifter.

'-mxl-pattern-compare'
     Use pattern compare instructions.

'-msmall-divides'
     Use table lookup optimization for small signed integer divisions.

'-mxl-stack-check'
     This option is deprecated.  Use '-fstack-check' instead.

'-mxl-gp-opt'
     Use GP-relative '.sdata'/'.sbss' sections.

'-mxl-multiply-high'
     Use multiply high instructions for high part of 32x32 multiply.

'-mxl-float-convert'
     Use hardware floating-point conversion instructions.

'-mxl-float-sqrt'
     Use hardware floating-point square root instruction.

'-mbig-endian'
     Generate code for a big-endian target.

'-mlittle-endian'
     Generate code for a little-endian target.

'-mxl-reorder'
     Use reorder instructions (swap and byte reversed load/store).

'-mxl-mode-APP-MODEL'
     Select application model APP-MODEL.  Valid models are
     'executable'
          normal executable (default), uses startup code 'crt0.o'.

     '-mpic-data-is-text-relative'
          Assume that the displacement between the text and data
          segments is fixed at static link time.  This allows data to be
          referenced by offset from start of text address instead of GOT
          since PC-relative addressing is not supported.

     'xmdstub'
          for use with Xilinx Microprocessor Debugger (XMD) based
          software intrusive debug agent called xmdstub.  This uses
          startup file 'crt1.o' and sets the start address of the
          program to 0x800.

     'bootstrap'
          for applications that are loaded using a bootloader.  This
          model uses startup file 'crt2.o' which does not contain a
          processor reset vector handler.  This is suitable for
          transferring control on a processor reset to the bootloader
          rather than the application.

     'novectors'
          for applications that do not require any of the MicroBlaze
          vectors.  This option may be useful for applications running
          within a monitoring application.  This model uses 'crt3.o' as
          a startup file.

     Option '-xl-mode-APP-MODEL' is a deprecated alias for
     '-mxl-mode-APP-MODEL'.

File: gcc.info,  Node: MIPS Options,  Next: MMIX Options,  Prev: MicroBlaze Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.28 MIPS Options
--------------------

'-EB'
     Generate big-endian code.

'-EL'
     Generate little-endian code.  This is the default for 'mips*el-*-*'
     configurations.

'-march=ARCH'
     Generate code that runs on ARCH, which can be the name of a generic
     MIPS ISA, or the name of a particular processor.  The ISA names
     are: 'mips1', 'mips2', 'mips3', 'mips4', 'mips32', 'mips32r2',
     'mips32r3', 'mips32r5', 'mips32r6', 'mips64', 'mips64r2',
     'mips64r3', 'mips64r5' and 'mips64r6'.  The processor names are:
     '4kc', '4km', '4kp', '4ksc', '4kec', '4kem', '4kep', '4ksd', '5kc',
     '5kf', '20kc', '24kc', '24kf2_1', '24kf1_1', '24kec', '24kef2_1',
     '24kef1_1', '34kc', '34kf2_1', '34kf1_1', '34kn', '74kc',
     '74kf2_1', '74kf1_1', '74kf3_2', '1004kc', '1004kf2_1',
     '1004kf1_1', 'i6400', 'i6500', 'interaptiv', 'loongson2e',
     'loongson2f', 'loongson3a', 'gs464', 'gs464e', 'gs264e', 'm4k',
     'm14k', 'm14kc', 'm14ke', 'm14kec', 'm5100', 'm5101', 'octeon',
     'octeon+', 'octeon2', 'octeon3', 'orion', 'p5600', 'p6600',
     'r2000', 'r3000', 'r3900', 'r4000', 'r4400', 'r4600', 'r4650',
     'r4700', 'r5900', 'r6000', 'r8000', 'rm7000', 'rm9000', 'r10000',
     'r12000', 'r14000', 'r16000', 'sb1', 'sr71000', 'vr4100', 'vr4111',
     'vr4120', 'vr4130', 'vr4300', 'vr5000', 'vr5400', 'vr5500', 'xlr'
     and 'xlp'.  The special value 'from-abi' selects the most
     compatible architecture for the selected ABI (that is, 'mips1' for
     32-bit ABIs and 'mips3' for 64-bit ABIs).

     The native Linux/GNU toolchain also supports the value 'native',
     which selects the best architecture option for the host processor.
     '-march=native' has no effect if GCC does not recognize the
     processor.

     In processor names, a final '000' can be abbreviated as 'k' (for
     example, '-march=r2k').  Prefixes are optional, and 'vr' may be
     written 'r'.

     Names of the form 'Nf2_1' refer to processors with FPUs clocked at
     half the rate of the core, names of the form 'Nf1_1' refer to
     processors with FPUs clocked at the same rate as the core, and
     names of the form 'Nf3_2' refer to processors with FPUs clocked a
     ratio of 3:2 with respect to the core.  For compatibility reasons,
     'Nf' is accepted as a synonym for 'Nf2_1' while 'Nx' and 'Bfx' are
     accepted as synonyms for 'Nf1_1'.

     GCC defines two macros based on the value of this option.  The
     first is '_MIPS_ARCH', which gives the name of target architecture,
     as a string.  The second has the form '_MIPS_ARCH_FOO', where FOO
     is the capitalized value of '_MIPS_ARCH'.  For example,
     '-march=r2000' sets '_MIPS_ARCH' to '"r2000"' and defines the macro
     '_MIPS_ARCH_R2000'.

     Note that the '_MIPS_ARCH' macro uses the processor names given
     above.  In other words, it has the full prefix and does not
     abbreviate '000' as 'k'.  In the case of 'from-abi', the macro
     names the resolved architecture (either '"mips1"' or '"mips3"').
     It names the default architecture when no '-march' option is given.

'-mtune=ARCH'
     Optimize for ARCH.  Among other things, this option controls the
     way instructions are scheduled, and the perceived cost of
     arithmetic operations.  The list of ARCH values is the same as for
     '-march'.

     When this option is not used, GCC optimizes for the processor
     specified by '-march'.  By using '-march' and '-mtune' together, it
     is possible to generate code that runs on a family of processors,
     but optimize the code for one particular member of that family.

     '-mtune' defines the macros '_MIPS_TUNE' and '_MIPS_TUNE_FOO',
     which work in the same way as the '-march' ones described above.

'-mips1'
     Equivalent to '-march=mips1'.

'-mips2'
     Equivalent to '-march=mips2'.

'-mips3'
     Equivalent to '-march=mips3'.

'-mips4'
     Equivalent to '-march=mips4'.

'-mips32'
     Equivalent to '-march=mips32'.

'-mips32r3'
     Equivalent to '-march=mips32r3'.

'-mips32r5'
     Equivalent to '-march=mips32r5'.

'-mips32r6'
     Equivalent to '-march=mips32r6'.

'-mips64'
     Equivalent to '-march=mips64'.

'-mips64r2'
     Equivalent to '-march=mips64r2'.

'-mips64r3'
     Equivalent to '-march=mips64r3'.

'-mips64r5'
     Equivalent to '-march=mips64r5'.

'-mips64r6'
     Equivalent to '-march=mips64r6'.

'-mips16'
'-mno-mips16'
     Generate (do not generate) MIPS16 code.  If GCC is targeting a
     MIPS32 or MIPS64 architecture, it makes use of the MIPS16e ASE.

     MIPS16 code generation can also be controlled on a per-function
     basis by means of 'mips16' and 'nomips16' attributes.  *Note
     Function Attributes::, for more information.

'-mflip-mips16'
     Generate MIPS16 code on alternating functions.  This option is
     provided for regression testing of mixed MIPS16/non-MIPS16 code
     generation, and is not intended for ordinary use in compiling user
     code.

'-minterlink-compressed'
'-mno-interlink-compressed'
     Require (do not require) that code using the standard
     (uncompressed) MIPS ISA be link-compatible with MIPS16 and
     microMIPS code, and vice versa.

     For example, code using the standard ISA encoding cannot jump
     directly to MIPS16 or microMIPS code; it must either use a call or
     an indirect jump.  '-minterlink-compressed' therefore disables
     direct jumps unless GCC knows that the target of the jump is not
     compressed.

'-minterlink-mips16'
'-mno-interlink-mips16'
     Aliases of '-minterlink-compressed' and
     '-mno-interlink-compressed'.  These options predate the microMIPS
     ASE and are retained for backwards compatibility.

'-mabi=32'
'-mabi=o64'
'-mabi=n32'
'-mabi=64'
'-mabi=eabi'
     Generate code for the given ABI.

     Note that the EABI has a 32-bit and a 64-bit variant.  GCC normally
     generates 64-bit code when you select a 64-bit architecture, but
     you can use '-mgp32' to get 32-bit code instead.

     For information about the O64 ABI, see
     <http://gcc.gnu.org/projects/mipso64-abi.html>.

     GCC supports a variant of the o32 ABI in which floating-point
     registers are 64 rather than 32 bits wide.  You can select this
     combination with '-mabi=32' '-mfp64'.  This ABI relies on the
     'mthc1' and 'mfhc1' instructions and is therefore only supported
     for MIPS32R2, MIPS32R3 and MIPS32R5 processors.

     The register assignments for arguments and return values remain the
     same, but each scalar value is passed in a single 64-bit register
     rather than a pair of 32-bit registers.  For example, scalar
     floating-point values are returned in '$f0' only, not a '$f0'/'$f1'
     pair.  The set of call-saved registers also remains the same in
     that the even-numbered double-precision registers are saved.

     Two additional variants of the o32 ABI are supported to enable a
     transition from 32-bit to 64-bit registers.  These are FPXX
     ('-mfpxx') and FP64A ('-mfp64' '-mno-odd-spreg').  The FPXX
     extension mandates that all code must execute correctly when run
     using 32-bit or 64-bit registers.  The code can be interlinked with
     either FP32 or FP64, but not both.  The FP64A extension is similar
     to the FP64 extension but forbids the use of odd-numbered
     single-precision registers.  This can be used in conjunction with
     the 'FRE' mode of FPUs in MIPS32R5 processors and allows both FP32
     and FP64A code to interlink and run in the same process without
     changing FPU modes.

'-mabicalls'
'-mno-abicalls'
     Generate (do not generate) code that is suitable for SVR4-style
     dynamic objects.  '-mabicalls' is the default for SVR4-based
     systems.

'-mshared'
'-mno-shared'
     Generate (do not generate) code that is fully position-independent,
     and that can therefore be linked into shared libraries.  This
     option only affects '-mabicalls'.

     All '-mabicalls' code has traditionally been position-independent,
     regardless of options like '-fPIC' and '-fpic'.  However, as an
     extension, the GNU toolchain allows executables to use absolute
     accesses for locally-binding symbols.  It can also use shorter GP
     initialization sequences and generate direct calls to
     locally-defined functions.  This mode is selected by '-mno-shared'.

     '-mno-shared' depends on binutils 2.16 or higher and generates
     objects that can only be linked by the GNU linker.  However, the
     option does not affect the ABI of the final executable; it only
     affects the ABI of relocatable objects.  Using '-mno-shared'
     generally makes executables both smaller and quicker.

     '-mshared' is the default.

'-mplt'
'-mno-plt'
     Assume (do not assume) that the static and dynamic linkers support
     PLTs and copy relocations.  This option only affects '-mno-shared
     -mabicalls'.  For the n64 ABI, this option has no effect without
     '-msym32'.

     You can make '-mplt' the default by configuring GCC with
     '--with-mips-plt'.  The default is '-mno-plt' otherwise.

'-mxgot'
'-mno-xgot'
     Lift (do not lift) the usual restrictions on the size of the global
     offset table.

     GCC normally uses a single instruction to load values from the GOT.
     While this is relatively efficient, it only works if the GOT is
     smaller than about 64k.  Anything larger causes the linker to
     report an error such as:

          relocation truncated to fit: R_MIPS_GOT16 foobar

     If this happens, you should recompile your code with '-mxgot'.
     This works with very large GOTs, although the code is also less
     efficient, since it takes three instructions to fetch the value of
     a global symbol.

     Note that some linkers can create multiple GOTs.  If you have such
     a linker, you should only need to use '-mxgot' when a single object
     file accesses more than 64k's worth of GOT entries.  Very few do.

     These options have no effect unless GCC is generating position
     independent code.

'-mgp32'
     Assume that general-purpose registers are 32 bits wide.

'-mgp64'
     Assume that general-purpose registers are 64 bits wide.

'-mfp32'
     Assume that floating-point registers are 32 bits wide.

'-mfp64'
     Assume that floating-point registers are 64 bits wide.

'-mfpxx'
     Do not assume the width of floating-point registers.

'-mhard-float'
     Use floating-point coprocessor instructions.

'-msoft-float'
     Do not use floating-point coprocessor instructions.  Implement
     floating-point calculations using library calls instead.

'-mno-float'
     Equivalent to '-msoft-float', but additionally asserts that the
     program being compiled does not perform any floating-point
     operations.  This option is presently supported only by some
     bare-metal MIPS configurations, where it may select a special set
     of libraries that lack all floating-point support (including, for
     example, the floating-point 'printf' formats).  If code compiled
     with '-mno-float' accidentally contains floating-point operations,
     it is likely to suffer a link-time or run-time failure.

'-msingle-float'
     Assume that the floating-point coprocessor only supports
     single-precision operations.

'-mdouble-float'
     Assume that the floating-point coprocessor supports
     double-precision operations.  This is the default.

'-modd-spreg'
'-mno-odd-spreg'
     Enable the use of odd-numbered single-precision floating-point
     registers for the o32 ABI. This is the default for processors that
     are known to support these registers.  When using the o32 FPXX ABI,
     '-mno-odd-spreg' is set by default.

'-mabs=2008'
'-mabs=legacy'
     These options control the treatment of the special not-a-number
     (NaN) IEEE 754 floating-point data with the 'abs.fmt' and 'neg.fmt'
     machine instructions.

     By default or when '-mabs=legacy' is used the legacy treatment is
     selected.  In this case these instructions are considered
     arithmetic and avoided where correct operation is required and the
     input operand might be a NaN. A longer sequence of instructions
     that manipulate the sign bit of floating-point datum manually is
     used instead unless the '-ffinite-math-only' option has also been
     specified.

     The '-mabs=2008' option selects the IEEE 754-2008 treatment.  In
     this case these instructions are considered non-arithmetic and
     therefore operating correctly in all cases, including in particular
     where the input operand is a NaN. These instructions are therefore
     always used for the respective operations.

'-mnan=2008'
'-mnan=legacy'
     These options control the encoding of the special not-a-number
     (NaN) IEEE 754 floating-point data.

     The '-mnan=legacy' option selects the legacy encoding.  In this
     case quiet NaNs (qNaNs) are denoted by the first bit of their
     trailing significand field being 0, whereas signaling NaNs (sNaNs)
     are denoted by the first bit of their trailing significand field
     being 1.

     The '-mnan=2008' option selects the IEEE 754-2008 encoding.  In
     this case qNaNs are denoted by the first bit of their trailing
     significand field being 1, whereas sNaNs are denoted by the first
     bit of their trailing significand field being 0.

     The default is '-mnan=legacy' unless GCC has been configured with
     '--with-nan=2008'.

'-mllsc'
'-mno-llsc'
     Use (do not use) 'll', 'sc', and 'sync' instructions to implement
     atomic memory built-in functions.  When neither option is
     specified, GCC uses the instructions if the target architecture
     supports them.

     '-mllsc' is useful if the runtime environment can emulate the
     instructions and '-mno-llsc' can be useful when compiling for
     nonstandard ISAs.  You can make either option the default by
     configuring GCC with '--with-llsc' and '--without-llsc'
     respectively.  '--with-llsc' is the default for some
     configurations; see the installation documentation for details.

'-mdsp'
'-mno-dsp'
     Use (do not use) revision 1 of the MIPS DSP ASE.  *Note MIPS DSP
     Built-in Functions::.  This option defines the preprocessor macro
     '__mips_dsp'.  It also defines '__mips_dsp_rev' to 1.

'-mdspr2'
'-mno-dspr2'
     Use (do not use) revision 2 of the MIPS DSP ASE.  *Note MIPS DSP
     Built-in Functions::.  This option defines the preprocessor macros
     '__mips_dsp' and '__mips_dspr2'.  It also defines '__mips_dsp_rev'
     to 2.

'-msmartmips'
'-mno-smartmips'
     Use (do not use) the MIPS SmartMIPS ASE.

'-mpaired-single'
'-mno-paired-single'
     Use (do not use) paired-single floating-point instructions.  *Note
     MIPS Paired-Single Support::.  This option requires hardware
     floating-point support to be enabled.

'-mdmx'
'-mno-mdmx'
     Use (do not use) MIPS Digital Media Extension instructions.  This
     option can only be used when generating 64-bit code and requires
     hardware floating-point support to be enabled.

'-mips3d'
'-mno-mips3d'
     Use (do not use) the MIPS-3D ASE.  *Note MIPS-3D Built-in
     Functions::.  The option '-mips3d' implies '-mpaired-single'.

'-mmicromips'
'-mno-micromips'
     Generate (do not generate) microMIPS code.

     MicroMIPS code generation can also be controlled on a per-function
     basis by means of 'micromips' and 'nomicromips' attributes.  *Note
     Function Attributes::, for more information.

'-mmt'
'-mno-mt'
     Use (do not use) MT Multithreading instructions.

'-mmcu'
'-mno-mcu'
     Use (do not use) the MIPS MCU ASE instructions.

'-meva'
'-mno-eva'
     Use (do not use) the MIPS Enhanced Virtual Addressing instructions.

'-mvirt'
'-mno-virt'
     Use (do not use) the MIPS Virtualization (VZ) instructions.

'-mxpa'
'-mno-xpa'
     Use (do not use) the MIPS eXtended Physical Address (XPA)
     instructions.

'-mcrc'
'-mno-crc'
     Use (do not use) the MIPS Cyclic Redundancy Check (CRC)
     instructions.

'-mginv'
'-mno-ginv'
     Use (do not use) the MIPS Global INValidate (GINV) instructions.

'-mloongson-mmi'
'-mno-loongson-mmi'
     Use (do not use) the MIPS Loongson MultiMedia extensions
     Instructions (MMI).

'-mloongson-ext'
'-mno-loongson-ext'
     Use (do not use) the MIPS Loongson EXTensions (EXT) instructions.

'-mloongson-ext2'
'-mno-loongson-ext2'
     Use (do not use) the MIPS Loongson EXTensions r2 (EXT2)
     instructions.

'-mlong64'
     Force 'long' types to be 64 bits wide.  See '-mlong32' for an
     explanation of the default and the way that the pointer size is
     determined.

'-mlong32'
     Force 'long', 'int', and pointer types to be 32 bits wide.

     The default size of 'int's, 'long's and pointers depends on the
     ABI.  All the supported ABIs use 32-bit 'int's.  The n64 ABI uses
     64-bit 'long's, as does the 64-bit EABI; the others use 32-bit
     'long's.  Pointers are the same size as 'long's, or the same size
     as integer registers, whichever is smaller.

'-msym32'
'-mno-sym32'
     Assume (do not assume) that all symbols have 32-bit values,
     regardless of the selected ABI.  This option is useful in
     combination with '-mabi=64' and '-mno-abicalls' because it allows
     GCC to generate shorter and faster references to symbolic
     addresses.

'-G NUM'
     Put definitions of externally-visible data in a small data section
     if that data is no bigger than NUM bytes.  GCC can then generate
     more efficient accesses to the data; see '-mgpopt' for details.

     The default '-G' option depends on the configuration.

'-mlocal-sdata'
'-mno-local-sdata'
     Extend (do not extend) the '-G' behavior to local data too, such as
     to static variables in C.  '-mlocal-sdata' is the default for all
     configurations.

     If the linker complains that an application is using too much small
     data, you might want to try rebuilding the less
     performance-critical parts with '-mno-local-sdata'.  You might also
     want to build large libraries with '-mno-local-sdata', so that the
     libraries leave more room for the main program.

'-mextern-sdata'
'-mno-extern-sdata'
     Assume (do not assume) that externally-defined data is in a small
     data section if the size of that data is within the '-G' limit.
     '-mextern-sdata' is the default for all configurations.

     If you compile a module MOD with '-mextern-sdata' '-G NUM'
     '-mgpopt', and MOD references a variable VAR that is no bigger than
     NUM bytes, you must make sure that VAR is placed in a small data
     section.  If VAR is defined by another module, you must either
     compile that module with a high-enough '-G' setting or attach a
     'section' attribute to VAR's definition.  If VAR is common, you
     must link the application with a high-enough '-G' setting.

     The easiest way of satisfying these restrictions is to compile and
     link every module with the same '-G' option.  However, you may wish
     to build a library that supports several different small data
     limits.  You can do this by compiling the library with the highest
     supported '-G' setting and additionally using '-mno-extern-sdata'
     to stop the library from making assumptions about
     externally-defined data.

'-mgpopt'
'-mno-gpopt'
     Use (do not use) GP-relative accesses for symbols that are known to
     be in a small data section; see '-G', '-mlocal-sdata' and
     '-mextern-sdata'.  '-mgpopt' is the default for all configurations.

     '-mno-gpopt' is useful for cases where the '$gp' register might not
     hold the value of '_gp'.  For example, if the code is part of a
     library that might be used in a boot monitor, programs that call
     boot monitor routines pass an unknown value in '$gp'.  (In such
     situations, the boot monitor itself is usually compiled with
     '-G0'.)

     '-mno-gpopt' implies '-mno-local-sdata' and '-mno-extern-sdata'.

'-membedded-data'
'-mno-embedded-data'
     Allocate variables to the read-only data section first if possible,
     then next in the small data section if possible, otherwise in data.
     This gives slightly slower code than the default, but reduces the
     amount of RAM required when executing, and thus may be preferred
     for some embedded systems.

'-muninit-const-in-rodata'
'-mno-uninit-const-in-rodata'
     Put uninitialized 'const' variables in the read-only data section.
     This option is only meaningful in conjunction with
     '-membedded-data'.

'-mcode-readable=SETTING'
     Specify whether GCC may generate code that reads from executable
     sections.  There are three possible settings:

     '-mcode-readable=yes'
          Instructions may freely access executable sections.  This is
          the default setting.

     '-mcode-readable=pcrel'
          MIPS16 PC-relative load instructions can access executable
          sections, but other instructions must not do so.  This option
          is useful on 4KSc and 4KSd processors when the code TLBs have
          the Read Inhibit bit set.  It is also useful on processors
          that can be configured to have a dual instruction/data SRAM
          interface and that, like the M4K, automatically redirect
          PC-relative loads to the instruction RAM.

     '-mcode-readable=no'
          Instructions must not access executable sections.  This option
          can be useful on targets that are configured to have a dual
          instruction/data SRAM interface but that (unlike the M4K) do
          not automatically redirect PC-relative loads to the
          instruction RAM.

'-msplit-addresses'
'-mno-split-addresses'
     Enable (disable) use of the '%hi()' and '%lo()' assembler
     relocation operators.  This option has been superseded by
     '-mexplicit-relocs' but is retained for backwards compatibility.

'-mexplicit-relocs'
'-mno-explicit-relocs'
     Use (do not use) assembler relocation operators when dealing with
     symbolic addresses.  The alternative, selected by
     '-mno-explicit-relocs', is to use assembler macros instead.

     '-mexplicit-relocs' is the default if GCC was configured to use an
     assembler that supports relocation operators.

'-mcheck-zero-division'
'-mno-check-zero-division'
     Trap (do not trap) on integer division by zero.

     The default is '-mcheck-zero-division'.

'-mdivide-traps'
'-mdivide-breaks'
     MIPS systems check for division by zero by generating either a
     conditional trap or a break instruction.  Using traps results in
     smaller code, but is only supported on MIPS II and later.  Also,
     some versions of the Linux kernel have a bug that prevents trap
     from generating the proper signal ('SIGFPE').  Use '-mdivide-traps'
     to allow conditional traps on architectures that support them and
     '-mdivide-breaks' to force the use of breaks.

     The default is usually '-mdivide-traps', but this can be overridden
     at configure time using '--with-divide=breaks'.  Divide-by-zero
     checks can be completely disabled using '-mno-check-zero-division'.

'-mload-store-pairs'
'-mno-load-store-pairs'
     Enable (disable) an optimization that pairs consecutive load or
     store instructions to enable load/store bonding.  This option is
     enabled by default but only takes effect when the selected
     architecture is known to support bonding.

'-mmemcpy'
'-mno-memcpy'
     Force (do not force) the use of 'memcpy' for non-trivial block
     moves.  The default is '-mno-memcpy', which allows GCC to inline
     most constant-sized copies.

'-mlong-calls'
'-mno-long-calls'
     Disable (do not disable) use of the 'jal' instruction.  Calling
     functions using 'jal' is more efficient but requires the caller and
     callee to be in the same 256 megabyte segment.

     This option has no effect on abicalls code.  The default is
     '-mno-long-calls'.

'-mmad'
'-mno-mad'
     Enable (disable) use of the 'mad', 'madu' and 'mul' instructions,
     as provided by the R4650 ISA.

'-mimadd'
'-mno-imadd'
     Enable (disable) use of the 'madd' and 'msub' integer instructions.
     The default is '-mimadd' on architectures that support 'madd' and
     'msub' except for the 74k architecture where it was found to
     generate slower code.

'-mfused-madd'
'-mno-fused-madd'
     Enable (disable) use of the floating-point multiply-accumulate
     instructions, when they are available.  The default is
     '-mfused-madd'.

     On the R8000 CPU when multiply-accumulate instructions are used,
     the intermediate product is calculated to infinite precision and is
     not subject to the FCSR Flush to Zero bit.  This may be undesirable
     in some circumstances.  On other processors the result is
     numerically identical to the equivalent computation using separate
     multiply, add, subtract and negate instructions.

'-nocpp'
     Tell the MIPS assembler to not run its preprocessor over user
     assembler files (with a '.s' suffix) when assembling them.

'-mfix-24k'
'-mno-fix-24k'
     Work around the 24K E48 (lost data on stores during refill) errata.
     The workarounds are implemented by the assembler rather than by
     GCC.

'-mfix-r4000'
'-mno-fix-r4000'
     Work around certain R4000 CPU errata:
        - A double-word or a variable shift may give an incorrect result
          if executed immediately after starting an integer division.
        - A double-word or a variable shift may give an incorrect result
          if executed while an integer multiplication is in progress.
        - An integer division may give an incorrect result if started in
          a delay slot of a taken branch or a jump.

'-mfix-r4400'
'-mno-fix-r4400'
     Work around certain R4400 CPU errata:
        - A double-word or a variable shift may give an incorrect result
          if executed immediately after starting an integer division.

'-mfix-r10000'
'-mno-fix-r10000'
     Work around certain R10000 errata:
        - 'll'/'sc' sequences may not behave atomically on revisions
          prior to 3.0.  They may deadlock on revisions 2.6 and earlier.

     This option can only be used if the target architecture supports
     branch-likely instructions.  '-mfix-r10000' is the default when
     '-march=r10000' is used; '-mno-fix-r10000' is the default
     otherwise.

'-mfix-r5900'
'-mno-fix-r5900'
     Do not attempt to schedule the preceding instruction into the delay
     slot of a branch instruction placed at the end of a short loop of
     six instructions or fewer and always schedule a 'nop' instruction
     there instead.  The short loop bug under certain conditions causes
     loops to execute only once or twice, due to a hardware bug in the
     R5900 chip.  The workaround is implemented by the assembler rather
     than by GCC.

'-mfix-rm7000'
'-mno-fix-rm7000'
     Work around the RM7000 'dmult'/'dmultu' errata.  The workarounds
     are implemented by the assembler rather than by GCC.

'-mfix-vr4120'
'-mno-fix-vr4120'
     Work around certain VR4120 errata:
        - 'dmultu' does not always produce the correct result.
        - 'div' and 'ddiv' do not always produce the correct result if
          one of the operands is negative.
     The workarounds for the division errata rely on special functions
     in 'libgcc.a'.  At present, these functions are only provided by
     the 'mips64vr*-elf' configurations.

     Other VR4120 errata require a NOP to be inserted between certain
     pairs of instructions.  These errata are handled by the assembler,
     not by GCC itself.

'-mfix-vr4130'
     Work around the VR4130 'mflo'/'mfhi' errata.  The workarounds are
     implemented by the assembler rather than by GCC, although GCC
     avoids using 'mflo' and 'mfhi' if the VR4130 'macc', 'macchi',
     'dmacc' and 'dmacchi' instructions are available instead.

'-mfix-sb1'
'-mno-fix-sb1'
     Work around certain SB-1 CPU core errata.  (This flag currently
     works around the SB-1 revision 2 "F1" and "F2" floating-point
     errata.)

'-mr10k-cache-barrier=SETTING'
     Specify whether GCC should insert cache barriers to avoid the side
     effects of speculation on R10K processors.

     In common with many processors, the R10K tries to predict the
     outcome of a conditional branch and speculatively executes
     instructions from the "taken" branch.  It later aborts these
     instructions if the predicted outcome is wrong.  However, on the
     R10K, even aborted instructions can have side effects.

     This problem only affects kernel stores and, depending on the
     system, kernel loads.  As an example, a speculatively-executed
     store may load the target memory into cache and mark the cache line
     as dirty, even if the store itself is later aborted.  If a DMA
     operation writes to the same area of memory before the "dirty" line
     is flushed, the cached data overwrites the DMA-ed data.  See the
     R10K processor manual for a full description, including other
     potential problems.

     One workaround is to insert cache barrier instructions before every
     memory access that might be speculatively executed and that might
     have side effects even if aborted.  '-mr10k-cache-barrier=SETTING'
     controls GCC's implementation of this workaround.  It assumes that
     aborted accesses to any byte in the following regions does not have
     side effects:

       1. the memory occupied by the current function's stack frame;

       2. the memory occupied by an incoming stack argument;

       3. the memory occupied by an object with a link-time-constant
          address.

     It is the kernel's responsibility to ensure that speculative
     accesses to these regions are indeed safe.

     If the input program contains a function declaration such as:

          void foo (void);

     then the implementation of 'foo' must allow 'j foo' and 'jal foo'
     to be executed speculatively.  GCC honors this restriction for
     functions it compiles itself.  It expects non-GCC functions (such
     as hand-written assembly code) to do the same.

     The option has three forms:

     '-mr10k-cache-barrier=load-store'
          Insert a cache barrier before a load or store that might be
          speculatively executed and that might have side effects even
          if aborted.

     '-mr10k-cache-barrier=store'
          Insert a cache barrier before a store that might be
          speculatively executed and that might have side effects even
          if aborted.

     '-mr10k-cache-barrier=none'
          Disable the insertion of cache barriers.  This is the default
          setting.

'-mflush-func=FUNC'
'-mno-flush-func'
     Specifies the function to call to flush the I and D caches, or to
     not call any such function.  If called, the function must take the
     same arguments as the common '_flush_func', that is, the address of
     the memory range for which the cache is being flushed, the size of
     the memory range, and the number 3 (to flush both caches).  The
     default depends on the target GCC was configured for, but commonly
     is either '_flush_func' or '__cpu_flush'.

'mbranch-cost=NUM'
     Set the cost of branches to roughly NUM "simple" instructions.
     This cost is only a heuristic and is not guaranteed to produce
     consistent results across releases.  A zero cost redundantly
     selects the default, which is based on the '-mtune' setting.

'-mbranch-likely'
'-mno-branch-likely'
     Enable or disable use of Branch Likely instructions, regardless of
     the default for the selected architecture.  By default, Branch
     Likely instructions may be generated if they are supported by the
     selected architecture.  An exception is for the MIPS32 and MIPS64
     architectures and processors that implement those architectures;
     for those, Branch Likely instructions are not be generated by
     default because the MIPS32 and MIPS64 architectures specifically
     deprecate their use.

'-mcompact-branches=never'
'-mcompact-branches=optimal'
'-mcompact-branches=always'
     These options control which form of branches will be generated.
     The default is '-mcompact-branches=optimal'.

     The '-mcompact-branches=never' option ensures that compact branch
     instructions will never be generated.

     The '-mcompact-branches=always' option ensures that a compact
     branch instruction will be generated if available.  If a compact
     branch instruction is not available, a delay slot form of the
     branch will be used instead.

     This option is supported from MIPS Release 6 onwards.

     The '-mcompact-branches=optimal' option will cause a delay slot
     branch to be used if one is available in the current ISA and the
     delay slot is successfully filled.  If the delay slot is not
     filled, a compact branch will be chosen if one is available.

'-mfp-exceptions'
'-mno-fp-exceptions'
     Specifies whether FP exceptions are enabled.  This affects how FP
     instructions are scheduled for some processors.  The default is
     that FP exceptions are enabled.

     For instance, on the SB-1, if FP exceptions are disabled, and we
     are emitting 64-bit code, then we can use both FP pipes.
     Otherwise, we can only use one FP pipe.

'-mvr4130-align'
'-mno-vr4130-align'
     The VR4130 pipeline is two-way superscalar, but can only issue two
     instructions together if the first one is 8-byte aligned.  When
     this option is enabled, GCC aligns pairs of instructions that it
     thinks should execute in parallel.

     This option only has an effect when optimizing for the VR4130.  It
     normally makes code faster, but at the expense of making it bigger.
     It is enabled by default at optimization level '-O3'.

'-msynci'
'-mno-synci'
     Enable (disable) generation of 'synci' instructions on
     architectures that support it.  The 'synci' instructions (if
     enabled) are generated when '__builtin___clear_cache' is compiled.

     This option defaults to '-mno-synci', but the default can be
     overridden by configuring GCC with '--with-synci'.

     When compiling code for single processor systems, it is generally
     safe to use 'synci'.  However, on many multi-core (SMP) systems, it
     does not invalidate the instruction caches on all cores and may
     lead to undefined behavior.

'-mrelax-pic-calls'
'-mno-relax-pic-calls'
     Try to turn PIC calls that are normally dispatched via register
     '$25' into direct calls.  This is only possible if the linker can
     resolve the destination at link time and if the destination is
     within range for a direct call.

     '-mrelax-pic-calls' is the default if GCC was configured to use an
     assembler and a linker that support the '.reloc' assembly directive
     and '-mexplicit-relocs' is in effect.  With '-mno-explicit-relocs',
     this optimization can be performed by the assembler and the linker
     alone without help from the compiler.

'-mmcount-ra-address'
'-mno-mcount-ra-address'
     Emit (do not emit) code that allows '_mcount' to modify the calling
     function's return address.  When enabled, this option extends the
     usual '_mcount' interface with a new RA-ADDRESS parameter, which
     has type 'intptr_t *' and is passed in register '$12'.  '_mcount'
     can then modify the return address by doing both of the following:
        * Returning the new address in register '$31'.
        * Storing the new address in '*RA-ADDRESS', if RA-ADDRESS is
          nonnull.

     The default is '-mno-mcount-ra-address'.

'-mframe-header-opt'
'-mno-frame-header-opt'
     Enable (disable) frame header optimization in the o32 ABI. When
     using the o32 ABI, calling functions will allocate 16 bytes on the
     stack for the called function to write out register arguments.
     When enabled, this optimization will suppress the allocation of the
     frame header if it can be determined that it is unused.

     This optimization is off by default at all optimization levels.

'-mlxc1-sxc1'
'-mno-lxc1-sxc1'
     When applicable, enable (disable) the generation of 'lwxc1',
     'swxc1', 'ldxc1', 'sdxc1' instructions.  Enabled by default.

'-mmadd4'
'-mno-madd4'
     When applicable, enable (disable) the generation of 4-operand
     'madd.s', 'madd.d' and related instructions.  Enabled by default.

File: gcc.info,  Node: MMIX Options,  Next: MN10300 Options,  Prev: MIPS Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.29 MMIX Options
--------------------

These options are defined for the MMIX:

'-mlibfuncs'
'-mno-libfuncs'
     Specify that intrinsic library functions are being compiled,
     passing all values in registers, no matter the size.

'-mepsilon'
'-mno-epsilon'
     Generate floating-point comparison instructions that compare with
     respect to the 'rE' epsilon register.

'-mabi=mmixware'
'-mabi=gnu'
     Generate code that passes function parameters and return values
     that (in the called function) are seen as registers '$0' and up, as
     opposed to the GNU ABI which uses global registers '$231' and up.

'-mzero-extend'
'-mno-zero-extend'
     When reading data from memory in sizes shorter than 64 bits, use
     (do not use) zero-extending load instructions by default, rather
     than sign-extending ones.

'-mknuthdiv'
'-mno-knuthdiv'
     Make the result of a division yielding a remainder have the same
     sign as the divisor.  With the default, '-mno-knuthdiv', the sign
     of the remainder follows the sign of the dividend.  Both methods
     are arithmetically valid, the latter being almost exclusively used.

'-mtoplevel-symbols'
'-mno-toplevel-symbols'
     Prepend (do not prepend) a ':' to all global symbols, so the
     assembly code can be used with the 'PREFIX' assembly directive.

'-melf'
     Generate an executable in the ELF format, rather than the default
     'mmo' format used by the 'mmix' simulator.

'-mbranch-predict'
'-mno-branch-predict'
     Use (do not use) the probable-branch instructions, when static
     branch prediction indicates a probable branch.

'-mbase-addresses'
'-mno-base-addresses'
     Generate (do not generate) code that uses _base addresses_.  Using
     a base address automatically generates a request (handled by the
     assembler and the linker) for a constant to be set up in a global
     register.  The register is used for one or more base address
     requests within the range 0 to 255 from the value held in the
     register.  The generally leads to short and fast code, but the
     number of different data items that can be addressed is limited.
     This means that a program that uses lots of static data may require
     '-mno-base-addresses'.

'-msingle-exit'
'-mno-single-exit'
     Force (do not force) generated code to have a single exit point in
     each function.

File: gcc.info,  Node: MN10300 Options,  Next: Moxie Options,  Prev: MMIX Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.30 MN10300 Options
-----------------------

These '-m' options are defined for Matsushita MN10300 architectures:

'-mmult-bug'
     Generate code to avoid bugs in the multiply instructions for the
     MN10300 processors.  This is the default.

'-mno-mult-bug'
     Do not generate code to avoid bugs in the multiply instructions for
     the MN10300 processors.

'-mam33'
     Generate code using features specific to the AM33 processor.

'-mno-am33'
     Do not generate code using features specific to the AM33 processor.
     This is the default.

'-mam33-2'
     Generate code using features specific to the AM33/2.0 processor.

'-mam34'
     Generate code using features specific to the AM34 processor.

'-mtune=CPU-TYPE'
     Use the timing characteristics of the indicated CPU type when
     scheduling instructions.  This does not change the targeted
     processor type.  The CPU type must be one of 'mn10300', 'am33',
     'am33-2' or 'am34'.

'-mreturn-pointer-on-d0'
     When generating a function that returns a pointer, return the
     pointer in both 'a0' and 'd0'.  Otherwise, the pointer is returned
     only in 'a0', and attempts to call such functions without a
     prototype result in errors.  Note that this option is on by
     default; use '-mno-return-pointer-on-d0' to disable it.

'-mno-crt0'
     Do not link in the C run-time initialization object file.

'-mrelax'
     Indicate to the linker that it should perform a relaxation
     optimization pass to shorten branches, calls and absolute memory
     addresses.  This option only has an effect when used on the command
     line for the final link step.

     This option makes symbolic debugging impossible.

'-mliw'
     Allow the compiler to generate _Long Instruction Word_ instructions
     if the target is the 'AM33' or later.  This is the default.  This
     option defines the preprocessor macro '__LIW__'.

'-mno-liw'
     Do not allow the compiler to generate _Long Instruction Word_
     instructions.  This option defines the preprocessor macro
     '__NO_LIW__'.

'-msetlb'
     Allow the compiler to generate the _SETLB_ and _Lcc_ instructions
     if the target is the 'AM33' or later.  This is the default.  This
     option defines the preprocessor macro '__SETLB__'.

'-mno-setlb'
     Do not allow the compiler to generate _SETLB_ or _Lcc_
     instructions.  This option defines the preprocessor macro
     '__NO_SETLB__'.

File: gcc.info,  Node: Moxie Options,  Next: MSP430 Options,  Prev: MN10300 Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.31 Moxie Options
---------------------

'-meb'
     Generate big-endian code.  This is the default for 'moxie-*-*'
     configurations.

'-mel'
     Generate little-endian code.

'-mmul.x'
     Generate mul.x and umul.x instructions.  This is the default for
     'moxiebox-*-*' configurations.

'-mno-crt0'
     Do not link in the C run-time initialization object file.

File: gcc.info,  Node: MSP430 Options,  Next: NDS32 Options,  Prev: Moxie Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.32 MSP430 Options
----------------------

These options are defined for the MSP430:

'-masm-hex'
     Force assembly output to always use hex constants.  Normally such
     constants are signed decimals, but this option is available for
     testsuite and/or aesthetic purposes.

'-mmcu='
     Select the MCU to target.  This is used to create a C preprocessor
     symbol based upon the MCU name, converted to upper case and pre-
     and post-fixed with '__'.  This in turn is used by the 'msp430.h'
     header file to select an MCU-specific supplementary header file.

     The option also sets the ISA to use.  If the MCU name is one that
     is known to only support the 430 ISA then that is selected,
     otherwise the 430X ISA is selected.  A generic MCU name of 'msp430'
     can also be used to select the 430 ISA. Similarly the generic
     'msp430x' MCU name selects the 430X ISA.

     In addition an MCU-specific linker script is added to the linker
     command line.  The script's name is the name of the MCU with '.ld'
     appended.  Thus specifying '-mmcu=xxx' on the 'gcc' command line
     defines the C preprocessor symbol '__XXX__' and cause the linker to
     search for a script called 'xxx.ld'.

     This option is also passed on to the assembler.

'-mwarn-mcu'
'-mno-warn-mcu'
     This option enables or disables warnings about conflicts between
     the MCU name specified by the '-mmcu' option and the ISA set by the
     '-mcpu' option and/or the hardware multiply support set by the
     '-mhwmult' option.  It also toggles warnings about unrecognized MCU
     names.  This option is on by default.

'-mcpu='
     Specifies the ISA to use.  Accepted values are 'msp430', 'msp430x'
     and 'msp430xv2'.  This option is deprecated.  The '-mmcu=' option
     should be used to select the ISA.

'-msim'
     Link to the simulator runtime libraries and linker script.
     Overrides any scripts that would be selected by the '-mmcu='
     option.

'-mlarge'
     Use large-model addressing (20-bit pointers, 32-bit 'size_t').

'-msmall'
     Use small-model addressing (16-bit pointers, 16-bit 'size_t').

'-mrelax'
     This option is passed to the assembler and linker, and allows the
     linker to perform certain optimizations that cannot be done until
     the final link.

'mhwmult='
     Describes the type of hardware multiply supported by the target.
     Accepted values are 'none' for no hardware multiply, '16bit' for
     the original 16-bit-only multiply supported by early MCUs.  '32bit'
     for the 16/32-bit multiply supported by later MCUs and 'f5series'
     for the 16/32-bit multiply supported by F5-series MCUs.  A value of
     'auto' can also be given.  This tells GCC to deduce the hardware
     multiply support based upon the MCU name provided by the '-mmcu'
     option.  If no '-mmcu' option is specified or if the MCU name is
     not recognized then no hardware multiply support is assumed.
     'auto' is the default setting.

     Hardware multiplies are normally performed by calling a library
     routine.  This saves space in the generated code.  When compiling
     at '-O3' or higher however the hardware multiplier is invoked
     inline.  This makes for bigger, but faster code.

     The hardware multiply routines disable interrupts whilst running
     and restore the previous interrupt state when they finish.  This
     makes them safe to use inside interrupt handlers as well as in
     normal code.

'-minrt'
     Enable the use of a minimum runtime environment - no static
     initializers or constructors.  This is intended for
     memory-constrained devices.  The compiler includes special symbols
     in some objects that tell the linker and runtime which code
     fragments are required.

'-mcode-region='
'-mdata-region='
     These options tell the compiler where to place functions and data
     that do not have one of the 'lower', 'upper', 'either' or 'section'
     attributes.  Possible values are 'lower', 'upper', 'either' or
     'any'.  The first three behave like the corresponding attribute.
     The fourth possible value - 'any' - is the default.  It leaves
     placement entirely up to the linker script and how it assigns the
     standard sections ('.text', '.data', etc) to the memory regions.

'-msilicon-errata='
     This option passes on a request to assembler to enable the fixes
     for the named silicon errata.

'-msilicon-errata-warn='
     This option passes on a request to the assembler to enable warning
     messages when a silicon errata might need to be applied.

File: gcc.info,  Node: NDS32 Options,  Next: Nios II Options,  Prev: MSP430 Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.33 NDS32 Options
---------------------

These options are defined for NDS32 implementations:

'-mbig-endian'
     Generate code in big-endian mode.

'-mlittle-endian'
     Generate code in little-endian mode.

'-mreduced-regs'
     Use reduced-set registers for register allocation.

'-mfull-regs'
     Use full-set registers for register allocation.

'-mcmov'
     Generate conditional move instructions.

'-mno-cmov'
     Do not generate conditional move instructions.

'-mext-perf'
     Generate performance extension instructions.

'-mno-ext-perf'
     Do not generate performance extension instructions.

'-mext-perf2'
     Generate performance extension 2 instructions.

'-mno-ext-perf2'
     Do not generate performance extension 2 instructions.

'-mext-string'
     Generate string extension instructions.

'-mno-ext-string'
     Do not generate string extension instructions.

'-mv3push'
     Generate v3 push25/pop25 instructions.

'-mno-v3push'
     Do not generate v3 push25/pop25 instructions.

'-m16-bit'
     Generate 16-bit instructions.

'-mno-16-bit'
     Do not generate 16-bit instructions.

'-misr-vector-size=NUM'
     Specify the size of each interrupt vector, which must be 4 or 16.

'-mcache-block-size=NUM'
     Specify the size of each cache block, which must be a power of 2
     between 4 and 512.

'-march=ARCH'
     Specify the name of the target architecture.

'-mcmodel=CODE-MODEL'
     Set the code model to one of
     'small'
          All the data and read-only data segments must be within 512KB
          addressing space.  The text segment must be within 16MB
          addressing space.
     'medium'
          The data segment must be within 512KB while the read-only data
          segment can be within 4GB addressing space.  The text segment
          should be still within 16MB addressing space.
     'large'
          All the text and data segments can be within 4GB addressing
          space.

'-mctor-dtor'
     Enable constructor/destructor feature.

'-mrelax'
     Guide linker to relax instructions.

File: gcc.info,  Node: Nios II Options,  Next: Nvidia PTX Options,  Prev: NDS32 Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.34 Nios II Options
-----------------------

These are the options defined for the Altera Nios II processor.

'-G NUM'
     Put global and static objects less than or equal to NUM bytes into
     the small data or BSS sections instead of the normal data or BSS
     sections.  The default value of NUM is 8.

'-mgpopt=OPTION'
'-mgpopt'
'-mno-gpopt'
     Generate (do not generate) GP-relative accesses.  The following
     OPTION names are recognized:

     'none'
          Do not generate GP-relative accesses.

     'local'
          Generate GP-relative accesses for small data objects that are
          not external, weak, or uninitialized common symbols.  Also use
          GP-relative addressing for objects that have been explicitly
          placed in a small data section via a 'section' attribute.

     'global'
          As for 'local', but also generate GP-relative accesses for
          small data objects that are external, weak, or common.  If you
          use this option, you must ensure that all parts of your
          program (including libraries) are compiled with the same '-G'
          setting.

     'data'
          Generate GP-relative accesses for all data objects in the
          program.  If you use this option, the entire data and BSS
          segments of your program must fit in 64K of memory and you
          must use an appropriate linker script to allocate them within
          the addressable range of the global pointer.

     'all'
          Generate GP-relative addresses for function pointers as well
          as data pointers.  If you use this option, the entire text,
          data, and BSS segments of your program must fit in 64K of
          memory and you must use an appropriate linker script to
          allocate them within the addressable range of the global
          pointer.

     '-mgpopt' is equivalent to '-mgpopt=local', and '-mno-gpopt' is
     equivalent to '-mgpopt=none'.

     The default is '-mgpopt' except when '-fpic' or '-fPIC' is
     specified to generate position-independent code.  Note that the
     Nios II ABI does not permit GP-relative accesses from shared
     libraries.

     You may need to specify '-mno-gpopt' explicitly when building
     programs that include large amounts of small data, including large
     GOT data sections.  In this case, the 16-bit offset for GP-relative
     addressing may not be large enough to allow access to the entire
     small data section.

'-mgprel-sec=REGEXP'
     This option specifies additional section names that can be accessed
     via GP-relative addressing.  It is most useful in conjunction with
     'section' attributes on variable declarations (*note Common
     Variable Attributes::) and a custom linker script.  The REGEXP is a
     POSIX Extended Regular Expression.

     This option does not affect the behavior of the '-G' option, and
     the specified sections are in addition to the standard '.sdata' and
     '.sbss' small-data sections that are recognized by '-mgpopt'.

'-mr0rel-sec=REGEXP'
     This option specifies names of sections that can be accessed via a
     16-bit offset from 'r0'; that is, in the low 32K or high 32K of the
     32-bit address space.  It is most useful in conjunction with
     'section' attributes on variable declarations (*note Common
     Variable Attributes::) and a custom linker script.  The REGEXP is a
     POSIX Extended Regular Expression.

     In contrast to the use of GP-relative addressing for small data,
     zero-based addressing is never generated by default and there are
     no conventional section names used in standard linker scripts for
     sections in the low or high areas of memory.

'-mel'
'-meb'
     Generate little-endian (default) or big-endian (experimental) code,
     respectively.

'-march=ARCH'
     This specifies the name of the target Nios II architecture.  GCC
     uses this name to determine what kind of instructions it can emit
     when generating assembly code.  Permissible names are: 'r1', 'r2'.

     The preprocessor macro '__nios2_arch__' is available to programs,
     with value 1 or 2, indicating the targeted ISA level.

'-mbypass-cache'
'-mno-bypass-cache'
     Force all load and store instructions to always bypass cache by
     using I/O variants of the instructions.  The default is not to
     bypass the cache.

'-mno-cache-volatile'
'-mcache-volatile'
     Volatile memory access bypass the cache using the I/O variants of
     the load and store instructions.  The default is not to bypass the
     cache.

'-mno-fast-sw-div'
'-mfast-sw-div'
     Do not use table-based fast divide for small numbers.  The default
     is to use the fast divide at '-O3' and above.

'-mno-hw-mul'
'-mhw-mul'
'-mno-hw-mulx'
'-mhw-mulx'
'-mno-hw-div'
'-mhw-div'
     Enable or disable emitting 'mul', 'mulx' and 'div' family of
     instructions by the compiler.  The default is to emit 'mul' and not
     emit 'div' and 'mulx'.

'-mbmx'
'-mno-bmx'
'-mcdx'
'-mno-cdx'
     Enable or disable generation of Nios II R2 BMX (bit manipulation)
     and CDX (code density) instructions.  Enabling these instructions
     also requires '-march=r2'.  Since these instructions are optional
     extensions to the R2 architecture, the default is not to emit them.

'-mcustom-INSN=N'
'-mno-custom-INSN'
     Each '-mcustom-INSN=N' option enables use of a custom instruction
     with encoding N when generating code that uses INSN.  For example,
     '-mcustom-fadds=253' generates custom instruction 253 for
     single-precision floating-point add operations instead of the
     default behavior of using a library call.

     The following values of INSN are supported.  Except as otherwise
     noted, floating-point operations are expected to be implemented
     with normal IEEE 754 semantics and correspond directly to the C
     operators or the equivalent GCC built-in functions (*note Other
     Builtins::).

     Single-precision floating point:

     'fadds', 'fsubs', 'fdivs', 'fmuls'
          Binary arithmetic operations.

     'fnegs'
          Unary negation.

     'fabss'
          Unary absolute value.

     'fcmpeqs', 'fcmpges', 'fcmpgts', 'fcmples', 'fcmplts', 'fcmpnes'
          Comparison operations.

     'fmins', 'fmaxs'
          Floating-point minimum and maximum.  These instructions are
          only generated if '-ffinite-math-only' is specified.

     'fsqrts'
          Unary square root operation.

     'fcoss', 'fsins', 'ftans', 'fatans', 'fexps', 'flogs'
          Floating-point trigonometric and exponential functions.  These
          instructions are only generated if
          '-funsafe-math-optimizations' is also specified.

     Double-precision floating point:

     'faddd', 'fsubd', 'fdivd', 'fmuld'
          Binary arithmetic operations.

     'fnegd'
          Unary negation.

     'fabsd'
          Unary absolute value.

     'fcmpeqd', 'fcmpged', 'fcmpgtd', 'fcmpled', 'fcmpltd', 'fcmpned'
          Comparison operations.

     'fmind', 'fmaxd'
          Double-precision minimum and maximum.  These instructions are
          only generated if '-ffinite-math-only' is specified.

     'fsqrtd'
          Unary square root operation.

     'fcosd', 'fsind', 'ftand', 'fatand', 'fexpd', 'flogd'
          Double-precision trigonometric and exponential functions.
          These instructions are only generated if
          '-funsafe-math-optimizations' is also specified.

     Conversions:
     'fextsd'
          Conversion from single precision to double precision.

     'ftruncds'
          Conversion from double precision to single precision.

     'fixsi', 'fixsu', 'fixdi', 'fixdu'
          Conversion from floating point to signed or unsigned integer
          types, with truncation towards zero.

     'round'
          Conversion from single-precision floating point to signed
          integer, rounding to the nearest integer and ties away from
          zero.  This corresponds to the '__builtin_lroundf' function
          when '-fno-math-errno' is used.

     'floatis', 'floatus', 'floatid', 'floatud'
          Conversion from signed or unsigned integer types to
          floating-point types.

     In addition, all of the following transfer instructions for
     internal registers X and Y must be provided to use any of the
     double-precision floating-point instructions.  Custom instructions
     taking two double-precision source operands expect the first
     operand in the 64-bit register X. The other operand (or only
     operand of a unary operation) is given to the custom arithmetic
     instruction with the least significant half in source register SRC1
     and the most significant half in SRC2.  A custom instruction that
     returns a double-precision result returns the most significant 32
     bits in the destination register and the other half in 32-bit
     register Y. GCC automatically generates the necessary code
     sequences to write register X and/or read register Y when
     double-precision floating-point instructions are used.

     'fwrx'
          Write SRC1 into the least significant half of X and SRC2 into
          the most significant half of X.

     'fwry'
          Write SRC1 into Y.

     'frdxhi', 'frdxlo'
          Read the most or least (respectively) significant half of X
          and store it in DEST.

     'frdy'
          Read the value of Y and store it into DEST.

     Note that you can gain more local control over generation of Nios
     II custom instructions by using the 'target("custom-INSN=N")' and
     'target("no-custom-INSN")' function attributes (*note Function
     Attributes::) or pragmas (*note Function Specific Option
     Pragmas::).

'-mcustom-fpu-cfg=NAME'

     This option enables a predefined, named set of custom instruction
     encodings (see '-mcustom-INSN' above).  Currently, the following
     sets are defined:

     '-mcustom-fpu-cfg=60-1' is equivalent to:
          -mcustom-fmuls=252
          -mcustom-fadds=253
          -mcustom-fsubs=254
          -fsingle-precision-constant

     '-mcustom-fpu-cfg=60-2' is equivalent to:
          -mcustom-fmuls=252
          -mcustom-fadds=253
          -mcustom-fsubs=254
          -mcustom-fdivs=255
          -fsingle-precision-constant

     '-mcustom-fpu-cfg=72-3' is equivalent to:
          -mcustom-floatus=243
          -mcustom-fixsi=244
          -mcustom-floatis=245
          -mcustom-fcmpgts=246
          -mcustom-fcmples=249
          -mcustom-fcmpeqs=250
          -mcustom-fcmpnes=251
          -mcustom-fmuls=252
          -mcustom-fadds=253
          -mcustom-fsubs=254
          -mcustom-fdivs=255
          -fsingle-precision-constant

     Custom instruction assignments given by individual '-mcustom-INSN='
     options override those given by '-mcustom-fpu-cfg=', regardless of
     the order of the options on the command line.

     Note that you can gain more local control over selection of a FPU
     configuration by using the 'target("custom-fpu-cfg=NAME")' function
     attribute (*note Function Attributes::) or pragma (*note Function
     Specific Option Pragmas::).

 These additional '-m' options are available for the Altera Nios II ELF
(bare-metal) target:

'-mhal'
     Link with HAL BSP. This suppresses linking with the GCC-provided C
     runtime startup and termination code, and is typically used in
     conjunction with '-msys-crt0=' to specify the location of the
     alternate startup code provided by the HAL BSP.

'-msmallc'
     Link with a limited version of the C library, '-lsmallc', rather
     than Newlib.

'-msys-crt0=STARTFILE'
     STARTFILE is the file name of the startfile (crt0) to use when
     linking.  This option is only useful in conjunction with '-mhal'.

'-msys-lib=SYSTEMLIB'
     SYSTEMLIB is the library name of the library that provides
     low-level system calls required by the C library, e.g. 'read' and
     'write'.  This option is typically used to link with a library
     provided by a HAL BSP.

File: gcc.info,  Node: Nvidia PTX Options,  Next: OpenRISC Options,  Prev: Nios II Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.35 Nvidia PTX Options
--------------------------

These options are defined for Nvidia PTX:

'-m32'
'-m64'
     Generate code for 32-bit or 64-bit ABI.

'-misa=ISA-STRING'
     Generate code for given the specified PTX ISA (e.g. 'sm_35').  ISA
     strings must be lower-case.  Valid ISA strings include 'sm_30' and
     'sm_35'.  The default ISA is sm_30.

'-mmainkernel'
     Link in code for a __main kernel.  This is for stand-alone instead
     of offloading execution.

'-moptimize'
     Apply partitioned execution optimizations.  This is the default
     when any level of optimization is selected.

'-msoft-stack'
     Generate code that does not use '.local' memory directly for stack
     storage.  Instead, a per-warp stack pointer is maintained
     explicitly.  This enables variable-length stack allocation (with
     variable-length arrays or 'alloca'), and when global memory is used
     for underlying storage, makes it possible to access automatic
     variables from other threads, or with atomic instructions.  This
     code generation variant is used for OpenMP offloading, but the
     option is exposed on its own for the purpose of testing the
     compiler; to generate code suitable for linking into programs using
     OpenMP offloading, use option '-mgomp'.

'-muniform-simt'
     Switch to code generation variant that allows to execute all
     threads in each warp, while maintaining memory state and side
     effects as if only one thread in each warp was active outside of
     OpenMP SIMD regions.  All atomic operations and calls to runtime
     (malloc, free, vprintf) are conditionally executed (iff current
     lane index equals the master lane index), and the register being
     assigned is copied via a shuffle instruction from the master lane.
     Outside of SIMD regions lane 0 is the master; inside, each thread
     sees itself as the master.  Shared memory array 'int __nvptx_uni[]'
     stores all-zeros or all-ones bitmasks for each warp, indicating
     current mode (0 outside of SIMD regions).  Each thread can
     bitwise-and the bitmask at position 'tid.y' with current lane index
     to compute the master lane index.

'-mgomp'
     Generate code for use in OpenMP offloading: enables '-msoft-stack'
     and '-muniform-simt' options, and selects corresponding multilib
     variant.

File: gcc.info,  Node: OpenRISC Options,  Next: PDP-11 Options,  Prev: Nvidia PTX Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.36 OpenRISC Options
------------------------

These options are defined for OpenRISC:

'-mboard=NAME'
     Configure a board specific runtime.  This will be passed to the
     linker for newlib board library linking.  The default is 'or1ksim'.

'-mnewlib'
     For compatibility, it's always newlib for elf now.

'-mhard-div'
     Generate code for hardware which supports divide instructions.
     This is the default.

'-mhard-mul'
     Generate code for hardware which supports multiply instructions.
     This is the default.

'-mcmov'
     Generate code for hardware which supports the conditional move
     ('l.cmov') instruction.

'-mror'
     Generate code for hardware which supports rotate right
     instructions.

'-msext'
     Generate code for hardware which supports sign-extension
     instructions.

'-msfimm'
     Generate code for hardware which supports set flag immediate
     ('l.sf*i') instructions.

'-mshftimm'
     Generate code for hardware which supports shift immediate related
     instructions (i.e.  'l.srai', 'l.srli', 'l.slli', '1.rori').  Note,
     to enable generation of the 'l.rori' instruction the '-mror' flag
     must also be specified.

'-msoft-div'
     Generate code for hardware which requires divide instruction
     emulation.

'-msoft-mul'
     Generate code for hardware which requires multiply instruction
     emulation.

File: gcc.info,  Node: PDP-11 Options,  Next: picoChip Options,  Prev: OpenRISC Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.37 PDP-11 Options
----------------------

These options are defined for the PDP-11:

'-mfpu'
     Use hardware FPP floating point.  This is the default.  (FIS
     floating point on the PDP-11/40 is not supported.)  Implies -m45.

'-msoft-float'
     Do not use hardware floating point.

'-mac0'
     Return floating-point results in ac0 (fr0 in Unix assembler
     syntax).

'-mno-ac0'
     Return floating-point results in memory.  This is the default.

'-m40'
     Generate code for a PDP-11/40.  Implies -msoft-float -mno-split.

'-m45'
     Generate code for a PDP-11/45.  This is the default.

'-m10'
     Generate code for a PDP-11/10.  Implies -msoft-float -mno-split.

'-mint16'
'-mno-int32'
     Use 16-bit 'int'.  This is the default.

'-mint32'
'-mno-int16'
     Use 32-bit 'int'.

'-msplit'
     Target has split instruction and data space.  Implies -m45.

'-munix-asm'
     Use Unix assembler syntax.

'-mdec-asm'
     Use DEC assembler syntax.

'-mgnu-asm'
     Use GNU assembler syntax.  This is the default.

'-mlra'
     Use the new LRA register allocator.  By default, the old "reload"
     allocator is used.

File: gcc.info,  Node: picoChip Options,  Next: PowerPC Options,  Prev: PDP-11 Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.38 picoChip Options
------------------------

These '-m' options are defined for picoChip implementations:

'-mae=AE_TYPE'
     Set the instruction set, register set, and instruction scheduling
     parameters for array element type AE_TYPE.  Supported values for
     AE_TYPE are 'ANY', 'MUL', and 'MAC'.

     '-mae=ANY' selects a completely generic AE type.  Code generated
     with this option runs on any of the other AE types.  The code is
     not as efficient as it would be if compiled for a specific AE type,
     and some types of operation (e.g., multiplication) do not work
     properly on all types of AE.

     '-mae=MUL' selects a MUL AE type.  This is the most useful AE type
     for compiled code, and is the default.

     '-mae=MAC' selects a DSP-style MAC AE. Code compiled with this
     option may suffer from poor performance of byte (char)
     manipulation, since the DSP AE does not provide hardware support
     for byte load/stores.

'-msymbol-as-address'
     Enable the compiler to directly use a symbol name as an address in
     a load/store instruction, without first loading it into a register.
     Typically, the use of this option generates larger programs, which
     run faster than when the option isn't used.  However, the results
     vary from program to program, so it is left as a user option,
     rather than being permanently enabled.

'-mno-inefficient-warnings'
     Disables warnings about the generation of inefficient code.  These
     warnings can be generated, for example, when compiling code that
     performs byte-level memory operations on the MAC AE type.  The MAC
     AE has no hardware support for byte-level memory operations, so all
     byte load/stores must be synthesized from word load/store
     operations.  This is inefficient and a warning is generated to
     indicate that you should rewrite the code to avoid byte operations,
     or to target an AE type that has the necessary hardware support.
     This option disables these warnings.

File: gcc.info,  Node: PowerPC Options,  Next: RISC-V Options,  Prev: picoChip Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.39 PowerPC Options
-----------------------

These are listed under *Note RS/6000 and PowerPC Options::.

File: gcc.info,  Node: RISC-V Options,  Next: RL78 Options,  Prev: PowerPC Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.40 RISC-V Options
----------------------

These command-line options are defined for RISC-V targets:

'-mbranch-cost=N'
     Set the cost of branches to roughly N instructions.

'-mplt'
'-mno-plt'
     When generating PIC code, do or don't allow the use of PLTs.
     Ignored for non-PIC. The default is '-mplt'.

'-mabi=ABI-STRING'
     Specify integer and floating-point calling convention.  ABI-STRING
     contains two parts: the size of integer types and the registers
     used for floating-point types.  For example '-march=rv64ifd
     -mabi=lp64d' means that 'long' and pointers are 64-bit (implicitly
     defining 'int' to be 32-bit), and that floating-point values up to
     64 bits wide are passed in F registers.  Contrast this with
     '-march=rv64ifd -mabi=lp64f', which still allows the compiler to
     generate code that uses the F and D extensions but only allows
     floating-point values up to 32 bits long to be passed in registers;
     or '-march=rv64ifd -mabi=lp64', in which no floating-point
     arguments will be passed in registers.

     The default for this argument is system dependent, users who want a
     specific calling convention should specify one explicitly.  The
     valid calling conventions are: 'ilp32', 'ilp32f', 'ilp32d', 'lp64',
     'lp64f', and 'lp64d'.  Some calling conventions are impossible to
     implement on some ISAs: for example, '-march=rv32if -mabi=ilp32d'
     is invalid because the ABI requires 64-bit values be passed in F
     registers, but F registers are only 32 bits wide.  There is also
     the 'ilp32e' ABI that can only be used with the 'rv32e'
     architecture.  This ABI is not well specified at present, and is
     subject to change.

'-mfdiv'
'-mno-fdiv'
     Do or don't use hardware floating-point divide and square root
     instructions.  This requires the F or D extensions for
     floating-point registers.  The default is to use them if the
     specified architecture has these instructions.

'-mdiv'
'-mno-div'
     Do or don't use hardware instructions for integer division.  This
     requires the M extension.  The default is to use them if the
     specified architecture has these instructions.

'-march=ISA-STRING'
     Generate code for given RISC-V ISA (e.g. 'rv64im').  ISA strings
     must be lower-case.  Examples include 'rv64i', 'rv32g', 'rv32e',
     and 'rv32imaf'.

'-mtune=PROCESSOR-STRING'
     Optimize the output for the given processor, specified by
     microarchitecture name.

'-mpreferred-stack-boundary=NUM'
     Attempt to keep the stack boundary aligned to a 2 raised to NUM
     byte boundary.  If '-mpreferred-stack-boundary' is not specified,
     the default is 4 (16 bytes or 128-bits).

     *Warning:* If you use this switch, then you must build all modules
     with the same value, including any libraries.  This includes the
     system libraries and startup modules.

'-msmall-data-limit=N'
     Put global and static data smaller than N bytes into a special
     section (on some targets).

'-msave-restore'
'-mno-save-restore'
     Do or don't use smaller but slower prologue and epilogue code that
     uses library function calls.  The default is to use fast inline
     prologues and epilogues.

'-mstrict-align'
'-mno-strict-align'
     Do not or do generate unaligned memory accesses.  The default is
     set depending on whether the processor we are optimizing for
     supports fast unaligned access or not.

'-mcmodel=medlow'
     Generate code for the medium-low code model.  The program and its
     statically defined symbols must lie within a single 2 GiB address
     range and must lie between absolute addresses -2 GiB and +2 GiB.
     Programs can be statically or dynamically linked.  This is the
     default code model.

'-mcmodel=medany'
     Generate code for the medium-any code model.  The program and its
     statically defined symbols must be within any single 2 GiB address
     range.  Programs can be statically or dynamically linked.

'-mexplicit-relocs'
'-mno-exlicit-relocs'
     Use or do not use assembler relocation operators when dealing with
     symbolic addresses.  The alternative is to use assembler macros
     instead, which may limit optimization.

'-mrelax'
'-mno-relax'
     Take advantage of linker relaxations to reduce the number of
     instructions required to materialize symbol addresses.  The default
     is to take advantage of linker relaxations.

'-memit-attribute'
'-mno-emit-attribute'
     Emit (do not emit) RISC-V attribute to record extra information
     into ELF objects.  This feature requires at least binutils 2.32.

File: gcc.info,  Node: RL78 Options,  Next: RS/6000 and PowerPC Options,  Prev: RISC-V Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.41 RL78 Options
--------------------

'-msim'
     Links in additional target libraries to support operation within a
     simulator.

'-mmul=none'
'-mmul=g10'
'-mmul=g13'
'-mmul=g14'
'-mmul=rl78'
     Specifies the type of hardware multiplication and division support
     to be used.  The simplest is 'none', which uses software for both
     multiplication and division.  This is the default.  The 'g13' value
     is for the hardware multiply/divide peripheral found on the
     RL78/G13 (S2 core) targets.  The 'g14' value selects the use of the
     multiplication and division instructions supported by the RL78/G14
     (S3 core) parts.  The value 'rl78' is an alias for 'g14' and the
     value 'mg10' is an alias for 'none'.

     In addition a C preprocessor macro is defined, based upon the
     setting of this option.  Possible values are: '__RL78_MUL_NONE__',
     '__RL78_MUL_G13__' or '__RL78_MUL_G14__'.

'-mcpu=g10'
'-mcpu=g13'
'-mcpu=g14'
'-mcpu=rl78'
     Specifies the RL78 core to target.  The default is the G14 core,
     also known as an S3 core or just RL78.  The G13 or S2 core does not
     have multiply or divide instructions, instead it uses a hardware
     peripheral for these operations.  The G10 or S1 core does not have
     register banks, so it uses a different calling convention.

     If this option is set it also selects the type of hardware multiply
     support to use, unless this is overridden by an explicit
     '-mmul=none' option on the command line.  Thus specifying
     '-mcpu=g13' enables the use of the G13 hardware multiply peripheral
     and specifying '-mcpu=g10' disables the use of hardware
     multiplications altogether.

     Note, although the RL78/G14 core is the default target, specifying
     '-mcpu=g14' or '-mcpu=rl78' on the command line does change the
     behavior of the toolchain since it also enables G14 hardware
     multiply support.  If these options are not specified on the
     command line then software multiplication routines will be used
     even though the code targets the RL78 core.  This is for backwards
     compatibility with older toolchains which did not have hardware
     multiply and divide support.

     In addition a C preprocessor macro is defined, based upon the
     setting of this option.  Possible values are: '__RL78_G10__',
     '__RL78_G13__' or '__RL78_G14__'.

'-mg10'
'-mg13'
'-mg14'
'-mrl78'
     These are aliases for the corresponding '-mcpu=' option.  They are
     provided for backwards compatibility.

'-mallregs'
     Allow the compiler to use all of the available registers.  By
     default registers 'r24..r31' are reserved for use in interrupt
     handlers.  With this option enabled these registers can be used in
     ordinary functions as well.

'-m64bit-doubles'
'-m32bit-doubles'
     Make the 'double' data type be 64 bits ('-m64bit-doubles') or 32
     bits ('-m32bit-doubles') in size.  The default is
     '-m32bit-doubles'.

'-msave-mduc-in-interrupts'
'-mno-save-mduc-in-interrupts'
     Specifies that interrupt handler functions should preserve the MDUC
     registers.  This is only necessary if normal code might use the
     MDUC registers, for example because it performs multiplication and
     division operations.  The default is to ignore the MDUC registers
     as this makes the interrupt handlers faster.  The target option
     -mg13 needs to be passed for this to work as this feature is only
     available on the G13 target (S2 core).  The MDUC registers will
     only be saved if the interrupt handler performs a multiplication or
     division operation or it calls another function.

File: gcc.info,  Node: RS/6000 and PowerPC Options,  Next: RX Options,  Prev: RL78 Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.42 IBM RS/6000 and PowerPC Options
---------------------------------------

These '-m' options are defined for the IBM RS/6000 and PowerPC:
'-mpowerpc-gpopt'
'-mno-powerpc-gpopt'
'-mpowerpc-gfxopt'
'-mno-powerpc-gfxopt'
'-mpowerpc64'
'-mno-powerpc64'
'-mmfcrf'
'-mno-mfcrf'
'-mpopcntb'
'-mno-popcntb'
'-mpopcntd'
'-mno-popcntd'
'-mfprnd'
'-mno-fprnd'
'-mcmpb'
'-mno-cmpb'
'-mmfpgpr'
'-mno-mfpgpr'
'-mhard-dfp'
'-mno-hard-dfp'
     You use these options to specify which instructions are available
     on the processor you are using.  The default value of these options
     is determined when configuring GCC.  Specifying the
     '-mcpu=CPU_TYPE' overrides the specification of these options.  We
     recommend you use the '-mcpu=CPU_TYPE' option rather than the
     options listed above.

     Specifying '-mpowerpc-gpopt' allows GCC to use the optional PowerPC
     architecture instructions in the General Purpose group, including
     floating-point square root.  Specifying '-mpowerpc-gfxopt' allows
     GCC to use the optional PowerPC architecture instructions in the
     Graphics group, including floating-point select.

     The '-mmfcrf' option allows GCC to generate the move from condition
     register field instruction implemented on the POWER4 processor and
     other processors that support the PowerPC V2.01 architecture.  The
     '-mpopcntb' option allows GCC to generate the popcount and
     double-precision FP reciprocal estimate instruction implemented on
     the POWER5 processor and other processors that support the PowerPC
     V2.02 architecture.  The '-mpopcntd' option allows GCC to generate
     the popcount instruction implemented on the POWER7 processor and
     other processors that support the PowerPC V2.06 architecture.  The
     '-mfprnd' option allows GCC to generate the FP round to integer
     instructions implemented on the POWER5+ processor and other
     processors that support the PowerPC V2.03 architecture.  The
     '-mcmpb' option allows GCC to generate the compare bytes
     instruction implemented on the POWER6 processor and other
     processors that support the PowerPC V2.05 architecture.  The
     '-mmfpgpr' option allows GCC to generate the FP move to/from
     general-purpose register instructions implemented on the POWER6X
     processor and other processors that support the extended PowerPC
     V2.05 architecture.  The '-mhard-dfp' option allows GCC to generate
     the decimal floating-point instructions implemented on some POWER
     processors.

     The '-mpowerpc64' option allows GCC to generate the additional
     64-bit instructions that are found in the full PowerPC64
     architecture and to treat GPRs as 64-bit, doubleword quantities.
     GCC defaults to '-mno-powerpc64'.

'-mcpu=CPU_TYPE'
     Set architecture type, register usage, and instruction scheduling
     parameters for machine type CPU_TYPE.  Supported values for
     CPU_TYPE are '401', '403', '405', '405fp', '440', '440fp', '464',
     '464fp', '476', '476fp', '505', '601', '602', '603', '603e', '604',
     '604e', '620', '630', '740', '7400', '7450', '750', '801', '821',
     '823', '860', '970', '8540', 'a2', 'e300c2', 'e300c3', 'e500mc',
     'e500mc64', 'e5500', 'e6500', 'ec603e', 'G3', 'G4', 'G5', 'titan',
     'power3', 'power4', 'power5', 'power5+', 'power6', 'power6x',
     'power7', 'power8', 'power9', 'powerpc', 'powerpc64',
     'powerpc64le', 'rs64', and 'native'.

     '-mcpu=powerpc', '-mcpu=powerpc64', and '-mcpu=powerpc64le' specify
     pure 32-bit PowerPC (either endian), 64-bit big endian PowerPC and
     64-bit little endian PowerPC architecture machine types, with an
     appropriate, generic processor model assumed for scheduling
     purposes.

     Specifying 'native' as cpu type detects and selects the
     architecture option that corresponds to the host processor of the
     system performing the compilation.  '-mcpu=native' has no effect if
     GCC does not recognize the processor.

     The other options specify a specific processor.  Code generated
     under those options runs best on that processor, and may not run at
     all on others.

     The '-mcpu' options automatically enable or disable the following
     options:

          -maltivec  -mfprnd  -mhard-float  -mmfcrf  -mmultiple
          -mpopcntb  -mpopcntd  -mpowerpc64
          -mpowerpc-gpopt  -mpowerpc-gfxopt
          -mmulhw  -mdlmzb  -mmfpgpr  -mvsx
          -mcrypto  -mhtm  -mpower8-fusion  -mpower8-vector
          -mquad-memory  -mquad-memory-atomic  -mfloat128  -mfloat128-hardware

     The particular options set for any particular CPU varies between
     compiler versions, depending on what setting seems to produce
     optimal code for that CPU; it doesn't necessarily reflect the
     actual hardware's capabilities.  If you wish to set an individual
     option to a particular value, you may specify it after the '-mcpu'
     option, like '-mcpu=970 -mno-altivec'.

     On AIX, the '-maltivec' and '-mpowerpc64' options are not enabled
     or disabled by the '-mcpu' option at present because AIX does not
     have full support for these options.  You may still enable or
     disable them individually if you're sure it'll work in your
     environment.

'-mtune=CPU_TYPE'
     Set the instruction scheduling parameters for machine type
     CPU_TYPE, but do not set the architecture type or register usage,
     as '-mcpu=CPU_TYPE' does.  The same values for CPU_TYPE are used
     for '-mtune' as for '-mcpu'.  If both are specified, the code
     generated uses the architecture and registers set by '-mcpu', but
     the scheduling parameters set by '-mtune'.

'-mcmodel=small'
     Generate PowerPC64 code for the small model: The TOC is limited to
     64k.

'-mcmodel=medium'
     Generate PowerPC64 code for the medium model: The TOC and other
     static data may be up to a total of 4G in size.  This is the
     default for 64-bit Linux.

'-mcmodel=large'
     Generate PowerPC64 code for the large model: The TOC may be up to
     4G in size.  Other data and code is only limited by the 64-bit
     address space.

'-maltivec'
'-mno-altivec'
     Generate code that uses (does not use) AltiVec instructions, and
     also enable the use of built-in functions that allow more direct
     access to the AltiVec instruction set.  You may also need to set
     '-mabi=altivec' to adjust the current ABI with AltiVec ABI
     enhancements.

     When '-maltivec' is used, the element order for AltiVec intrinsics
     such as 'vec_splat', 'vec_extract', and 'vec_insert' match array
     element order corresponding to the endianness of the target.  That
     is, element zero identifies the leftmost element in a vector
     register when targeting a big-endian platform, and identifies the
     rightmost element in a vector register when targeting a
     little-endian platform.

'-mvrsave'
'-mno-vrsave'
     Generate VRSAVE instructions when generating AltiVec code.

'-msecure-plt'
     Generate code that allows 'ld' and 'ld.so' to build executables and
     shared libraries with non-executable '.plt' and '.got' sections.
     This is a PowerPC 32-bit SYSV ABI option.

'-mbss-plt'
     Generate code that uses a BSS '.plt' section that 'ld.so' fills in,
     and requires '.plt' and '.got' sections that are both writable and
     executable.  This is a PowerPC 32-bit SYSV ABI option.

'-misel'
'-mno-isel'
     This switch enables or disables the generation of ISEL
     instructions.

'-mvsx'
'-mno-vsx'
     Generate code that uses (does not use) vector/scalar (VSX)
     instructions, and also enable the use of built-in functions that
     allow more direct access to the VSX instruction set.

'-mcrypto'
'-mno-crypto'
     Enable the use (disable) of the built-in functions that allow
     direct access to the cryptographic instructions that were added in
     version 2.07 of the PowerPC ISA.

'-mhtm'
'-mno-htm'
     Enable (disable) the use of the built-in functions that allow
     direct access to the Hardware Transactional Memory (HTM)
     instructions that were added in version 2.07 of the PowerPC ISA.

'-mpower8-fusion'
'-mno-power8-fusion'
     Generate code that keeps (does not keeps) some integer operations
     adjacent so that the instructions can be fused together on power8
     and later processors.

'-mpower8-vector'
'-mno-power8-vector'
     Generate code that uses (does not use) the vector and scalar
     instructions that were added in version 2.07 of the PowerPC ISA.
     Also enable the use of built-in functions that allow more direct
     access to the vector instructions.

'-mquad-memory'
'-mno-quad-memory'
     Generate code that uses (does not use) the non-atomic quad word
     memory instructions.  The '-mquad-memory' option requires use of
     64-bit mode.

'-mquad-memory-atomic'
'-mno-quad-memory-atomic'
     Generate code that uses (does not use) the atomic quad word memory
     instructions.  The '-mquad-memory-atomic' option requires use of
     64-bit mode.

'-mfloat128'
'-mno-float128'
     Enable/disable the __FLOAT128 keyword for IEEE 128-bit floating
     point and use either software emulation for IEEE 128-bit floating
     point or hardware instructions.

     The VSX instruction set ('-mvsx', '-mcpu=power7', '-mcpu=power8'),
     or '-mcpu=power9' must be enabled to use the IEEE 128-bit floating
     point support.  The IEEE 128-bit floating point support only works
     on PowerPC Linux systems.

     The default for '-mfloat128' is enabled on PowerPC Linux systems
     using the VSX instruction set, and disabled on other systems.

     If you use the ISA 3.0 instruction set ('-mpower9-vector' or
     '-mcpu=power9') on a 64-bit system, the IEEE 128-bit floating point
     support will also enable the generation of ISA 3.0 IEEE 128-bit
     floating point instructions.  Otherwise, if you do not specify to
     generate ISA 3.0 instructions or you are targeting a 32-bit big
     endian system, IEEE 128-bit floating point will be done with
     software emulation.

'-mfloat128-hardware'
'-mno-float128-hardware'
     Enable/disable using ISA 3.0 hardware instructions to support the
     __FLOAT128 data type.

     The default for '-mfloat128-hardware' is enabled on PowerPC Linux
     systems using the ISA 3.0 instruction set, and disabled on other
     systems.

'-m32'
'-m64'
     Generate code for 32-bit or 64-bit environments of Darwin and SVR4
     targets (including GNU/Linux).  The 32-bit environment sets int,
     long and pointer to 32 bits and generates code that runs on any
     PowerPC variant.  The 64-bit environment sets int to 32 bits and
     long and pointer to 64 bits, and generates code for PowerPC64, as
     for '-mpowerpc64'.

'-mfull-toc'
'-mno-fp-in-toc'
'-mno-sum-in-toc'
'-mminimal-toc'
     Modify generation of the TOC (Table Of Contents), which is created
     for every executable file.  The '-mfull-toc' option is selected by
     default.  In that case, GCC allocates at least one TOC entry for
     each unique non-automatic variable reference in your program.  GCC
     also places floating-point constants in the TOC.  However, only
     16,384 entries are available in the TOC.

     If you receive a linker error message that saying you have
     overflowed the available TOC space, you can reduce the amount of
     TOC space used with the '-mno-fp-in-toc' and '-mno-sum-in-toc'
     options.  '-mno-fp-in-toc' prevents GCC from putting floating-point
     constants in the TOC and '-mno-sum-in-toc' forces GCC to generate
     code to calculate the sum of an address and a constant at run time
     instead of putting that sum into the TOC.  You may specify one or
     both of these options.  Each causes GCC to produce very slightly
     slower and larger code at the expense of conserving TOC space.

     If you still run out of space in the TOC even when you specify both
     of these options, specify '-mminimal-toc' instead.  This option
     causes GCC to make only one TOC entry for every file.  When you
     specify this option, GCC produces code that is slower and larger
     but which uses extremely little TOC space.  You may wish to use
     this option only on files that contain less frequently-executed
     code.

'-maix64'
'-maix32'
     Enable 64-bit AIX ABI and calling convention: 64-bit pointers,
     64-bit 'long' type, and the infrastructure needed to support them.
     Specifying '-maix64' implies '-mpowerpc64', while '-maix32'
     disables the 64-bit ABI and implies '-mno-powerpc64'.  GCC defaults
     to '-maix32'.

'-mxl-compat'
'-mno-xl-compat'
     Produce code that conforms more closely to IBM XL compiler
     semantics when using AIX-compatible ABI.  Pass floating-point
     arguments to prototyped functions beyond the register save area
     (RSA) on the stack in addition to argument FPRs.  Do not assume
     that most significant double in 128-bit long double value is
     properly rounded when comparing values and converting to double.
     Use XL symbol names for long double support routines.

     The AIX calling convention was extended but not initially
     documented to handle an obscure K&R C case of calling a function
     that takes the address of its arguments with fewer arguments than
     declared.  IBM XL compilers access floating-point arguments that do
     not fit in the RSA from the stack when a subroutine is compiled
     without optimization.  Because always storing floating-point
     arguments on the stack is inefficient and rarely needed, this
     option is not enabled by default and only is necessary when calling
     subroutines compiled by IBM XL compilers without optimization.

'-mpe'
     Support "IBM RS/6000 SP" "Parallel Environment" (PE).  Link an
     application written to use message passing with special startup
     code to enable the application to run.  The system must have PE
     installed in the standard location ('/usr/lpp/ppe.poe/'), or the
     'specs' file must be overridden with the '-specs=' option to
     specify the appropriate directory location.  The Parallel
     Environment does not support threads, so the '-mpe' option and the
     '-pthread' option are incompatible.

'-malign-natural'
'-malign-power'
     On AIX, 32-bit Darwin, and 64-bit PowerPC GNU/Linux, the option
     '-malign-natural' overrides the ABI-defined alignment of larger
     types, such as floating-point doubles, on their natural size-based
     boundary.  The option '-malign-power' instructs GCC to follow the
     ABI-specified alignment rules.  GCC defaults to the standard
     alignment defined in the ABI.

     On 64-bit Darwin, natural alignment is the default, and
     '-malign-power' is not supported.

'-msoft-float'
'-mhard-float'
     Generate code that does not use (uses) the floating-point register
     set.  Software floating-point emulation is provided if you use the
     '-msoft-float' option, and pass the option to GCC when linking.

'-mmultiple'
'-mno-multiple'
     Generate code that uses (does not use) the load multiple word
     instructions and the store multiple word instructions.  These
     instructions are generated by default on POWER systems, and not
     generated on PowerPC systems.  Do not use '-mmultiple' on
     little-endian PowerPC systems, since those instructions do not work
     when the processor is in little-endian mode.  The exceptions are
     PPC740 and PPC750 which permit these instructions in little-endian
     mode.

'-mupdate'
'-mno-update'
     Generate code that uses (does not use) the load or store
     instructions that update the base register to the address of the
     calculated memory location.  These instructions are generated by
     default.  If you use '-mno-update', there is a small window between
     the time that the stack pointer is updated and the address of the
     previous frame is stored, which means code that walks the stack
     frame across interrupts or signals may get corrupted data.

'-mavoid-indexed-addresses'
'-mno-avoid-indexed-addresses'
     Generate code that tries to avoid (not avoid) the use of indexed
     load or store instructions.  These instructions can incur a
     performance penalty on Power6 processors in certain situations,
     such as when stepping through large arrays that cross a 16M
     boundary.  This option is enabled by default when targeting Power6
     and disabled otherwise.

'-mfused-madd'
'-mno-fused-madd'
     Generate code that uses (does not use) the floating-point multiply
     and accumulate instructions.  These instructions are generated by
     default if hardware floating point is used.  The machine-dependent
     '-mfused-madd' option is now mapped to the machine-independent
     '-ffp-contract=fast' option, and '-mno-fused-madd' is mapped to
     '-ffp-contract=off'.

'-mmulhw'
'-mno-mulhw'
     Generate code that uses (does not use) the half-word multiply and
     multiply-accumulate instructions on the IBM 405, 440, 464 and 476
     processors.  These instructions are generated by default when
     targeting those processors.

'-mdlmzb'
'-mno-dlmzb'
     Generate code that uses (does not use) the string-search 'dlmzb'
     instruction on the IBM 405, 440, 464 and 476 processors.  This
     instruction is generated by default when targeting those
     processors.

'-mno-bit-align'
'-mbit-align'
     On System V.4 and embedded PowerPC systems do not (do) force
     structures and unions that contain bit-fields to be aligned to the
     base type of the bit-field.

     For example, by default a structure containing nothing but 8
     'unsigned' bit-fields of length 1 is aligned to a 4-byte boundary
     and has a size of 4 bytes.  By using '-mno-bit-align', the
     structure is aligned to a 1-byte boundary and is 1 byte in size.

'-mno-strict-align'
'-mstrict-align'
     On System V.4 and embedded PowerPC systems do not (do) assume that
     unaligned memory references are handled by the system.

'-mrelocatable'
'-mno-relocatable'
     Generate code that allows (does not allow) a static executable to
     be relocated to a different address at run time.  A simple embedded
     PowerPC system loader should relocate the entire contents of
     '.got2' and 4-byte locations listed in the '.fixup' section, a
     table of 32-bit addresses generated by this option.  For this to
     work, all objects linked together must be compiled with
     '-mrelocatable' or '-mrelocatable-lib'.  '-mrelocatable' code
     aligns the stack to an 8-byte boundary.

'-mrelocatable-lib'
'-mno-relocatable-lib'
     Like '-mrelocatable', '-mrelocatable-lib' generates a '.fixup'
     section to allow static executables to be relocated at run time,
     but '-mrelocatable-lib' does not use the smaller stack alignment of
     '-mrelocatable'.  Objects compiled with '-mrelocatable-lib' may be
     linked with objects compiled with any combination of the
     '-mrelocatable' options.

'-mno-toc'
'-mtoc'
     On System V.4 and embedded PowerPC systems do not (do) assume that
     register 2 contains a pointer to a global area pointing to the
     addresses used in the program.

'-mlittle'
'-mlittle-endian'
     On System V.4 and embedded PowerPC systems compile code for the
     processor in little-endian mode.  The '-mlittle-endian' option is
     the same as '-mlittle'.

'-mbig'
'-mbig-endian'
     On System V.4 and embedded PowerPC systems compile code for the
     processor in big-endian mode.  The '-mbig-endian' option is the
     same as '-mbig'.

'-mdynamic-no-pic'
     On Darwin and Mac OS X systems, compile code so that it is not
     relocatable, but that its external references are relocatable.  The
     resulting code is suitable for applications, but not shared
     libraries.

'-msingle-pic-base'
     Treat the register used for PIC addressing as read-only, rather
     than loading it in the prologue for each function.  The runtime
     system is responsible for initializing this register with an
     appropriate value before execution begins.

'-mprioritize-restricted-insns=PRIORITY'
     This option controls the priority that is assigned to dispatch-slot
     restricted instructions during the second scheduling pass.  The
     argument PRIORITY takes the value '0', '1', or '2' to assign no,
     highest, or second-highest (respectively) priority to dispatch-slot
     restricted instructions.

'-msched-costly-dep=DEPENDENCE_TYPE'
     This option controls which dependences are considered costly by the
     target during instruction scheduling.  The argument DEPENDENCE_TYPE
     takes one of the following values:

     'no'
          No dependence is costly.

     'all'
          All dependences are costly.

     'true_store_to_load'
          A true dependence from store to load is costly.

     'store_to_load'
          Any dependence from store to load is costly.

     NUMBER
          Any dependence for which the latency is greater than or equal
          to NUMBER is costly.

'-minsert-sched-nops=SCHEME'
     This option controls which NOP insertion scheme is used during the
     second scheduling pass.  The argument SCHEME takes one of the
     following values:

     'no'
          Don't insert NOPs.

     'pad'
          Pad with NOPs any dispatch group that has vacant issue slots,
          according to the scheduler's grouping.

     'regroup_exact'
          Insert NOPs to force costly dependent insns into separate
          groups.  Insert exactly as many NOPs as needed to force an
          insn to a new group, according to the estimated processor
          grouping.

     NUMBER
          Insert NOPs to force costly dependent insns into separate
          groups.  Insert NUMBER NOPs to force an insn to a new group.

'-mcall-sysv'
     On System V.4 and embedded PowerPC systems compile code using
     calling conventions that adhere to the March 1995 draft of the
     System V Application Binary Interface, PowerPC processor
     supplement.  This is the default unless you configured GCC using
     'powerpc-*-eabiaix'.

'-mcall-sysv-eabi'
'-mcall-eabi'
     Specify both '-mcall-sysv' and '-meabi' options.

'-mcall-sysv-noeabi'
     Specify both '-mcall-sysv' and '-mno-eabi' options.

'-mcall-aixdesc'
     On System V.4 and embedded PowerPC systems compile code for the AIX
     operating system.

'-mcall-linux'
     On System V.4 and embedded PowerPC systems compile code for the
     Linux-based GNU system.

'-mcall-freebsd'
     On System V.4 and embedded PowerPC systems compile code for the
     FreeBSD operating system.

'-mcall-netbsd'
     On System V.4 and embedded PowerPC systems compile code for the
     NetBSD operating system.

'-mcall-openbsd'
     On System V.4 and embedded PowerPC systems compile code for the
     OpenBSD operating system.

'-mtraceback=TRACEBACK_TYPE'
     Select the type of traceback table.  Valid values for
     TRACEBACK_TYPE are 'full', 'part', and 'no'.

'-maix-struct-return'
     Return all structures in memory (as specified by the AIX ABI).

'-msvr4-struct-return'
     Return structures smaller than 8 bytes in registers (as specified
     by the SVR4 ABI).

'-mabi=ABI-TYPE'
     Extend the current ABI with a particular extension, or remove such
     extension.  Valid values are 'altivec', 'no-altivec',
     'ibmlongdouble', 'ieeelongdouble', 'elfv1', 'elfv2'.

'-mabi=ibmlongdouble'
     Change the current ABI to use IBM extended-precision long double.
     This is not likely to work if your system defaults to using IEEE
     extended-precision long double.  If you change the long double type
     from IEEE extended-precision, the compiler will issue a warning
     unless you use the '-Wno-psabi' option.  Requires
     '-mlong-double-128' to be enabled.

'-mabi=ieeelongdouble'
     Change the current ABI to use IEEE extended-precision long double.
     This is not likely to work if your system defaults to using IBM
     extended-precision long double.  If you change the long double type
     from IBM extended-precision, the compiler will issue a warning
     unless you use the '-Wno-psabi' option.  Requires
     '-mlong-double-128' to be enabled.

'-mabi=elfv1'
     Change the current ABI to use the ELFv1 ABI. This is the default
     ABI for big-endian PowerPC 64-bit Linux.  Overriding the default
     ABI requires special system support and is likely to fail in
     spectacular ways.

'-mabi=elfv2'
     Change the current ABI to use the ELFv2 ABI. This is the default
     ABI for little-endian PowerPC 64-bit Linux.  Overriding the default
     ABI requires special system support and is likely to fail in
     spectacular ways.

'-mgnu-attribute'
'-mno-gnu-attribute'
     Emit .gnu_attribute assembly directives to set tag/value pairs in a
     .gnu.attributes section that specify ABI variations in function
     parameters or return values.

'-mprototype'
'-mno-prototype'
     On System V.4 and embedded PowerPC systems assume that all calls to
     variable argument functions are properly prototyped.  Otherwise,
     the compiler must insert an instruction before every non-prototyped
     call to set or clear bit 6 of the condition code register ('CR') to
     indicate whether floating-point values are passed in the
     floating-point registers in case the function takes variable
     arguments.  With '-mprototype', only calls to prototyped variable
     argument functions set or clear the bit.

'-msim'
     On embedded PowerPC systems, assume that the startup module is
     called 'sim-crt0.o' and that the standard C libraries are
     'libsim.a' and 'libc.a'.  This is the default for
     'powerpc-*-eabisim' configurations.

'-mmvme'
     On embedded PowerPC systems, assume that the startup module is
     called 'crt0.o' and the standard C libraries are 'libmvme.a' and
     'libc.a'.

'-mads'
     On embedded PowerPC systems, assume that the startup module is
     called 'crt0.o' and the standard C libraries are 'libads.a' and
     'libc.a'.

'-myellowknife'
     On embedded PowerPC systems, assume that the startup module is
     called 'crt0.o' and the standard C libraries are 'libyk.a' and
     'libc.a'.

'-mvxworks'
     On System V.4 and embedded PowerPC systems, specify that you are
     compiling for a VxWorks system.

'-memb'
     On embedded PowerPC systems, set the 'PPC_EMB' bit in the ELF flags
     header to indicate that 'eabi' extended relocations are used.

'-meabi'
'-mno-eabi'
     On System V.4 and embedded PowerPC systems do (do not) adhere to
     the Embedded Applications Binary Interface (EABI), which is a set
     of modifications to the System V.4 specifications.  Selecting
     '-meabi' means that the stack is aligned to an 8-byte boundary, a
     function '__eabi' is called from 'main' to set up the EABI
     environment, and the '-msdata' option can use both 'r2' and 'r13'
     to point to two separate small data areas.  Selecting '-mno-eabi'
     means that the stack is aligned to a 16-byte boundary, no EABI
     initialization function is called from 'main', and the '-msdata'
     option only uses 'r13' to point to a single small data area.  The
     '-meabi' option is on by default if you configured GCC using one of
     the 'powerpc*-*-eabi*' options.

'-msdata=eabi'
     On System V.4 and embedded PowerPC systems, put small initialized
     'const' global and static data in the '.sdata2' section, which is
     pointed to by register 'r2'.  Put small initialized non-'const'
     global and static data in the '.sdata' section, which is pointed to
     by register 'r13'.  Put small uninitialized global and static data
     in the '.sbss' section, which is adjacent to the '.sdata' section.
     The '-msdata=eabi' option is incompatible with the '-mrelocatable'
     option.  The '-msdata=eabi' option also sets the '-memb' option.

'-msdata=sysv'
     On System V.4 and embedded PowerPC systems, put small global and
     static data in the '.sdata' section, which is pointed to by
     register 'r13'.  Put small uninitialized global and static data in
     the '.sbss' section, which is adjacent to the '.sdata' section.
     The '-msdata=sysv' option is incompatible with the '-mrelocatable'
     option.

'-msdata=default'
'-msdata'
     On System V.4 and embedded PowerPC systems, if '-meabi' is used,
     compile code the same as '-msdata=eabi', otherwise compile code the
     same as '-msdata=sysv'.

'-msdata=data'
     On System V.4 and embedded PowerPC systems, put small global data
     in the '.sdata' section.  Put small uninitialized global data in
     the '.sbss' section.  Do not use register 'r13' to address small
     data however.  This is the default behavior unless other '-msdata'
     options are used.

'-msdata=none'
'-mno-sdata'
     On embedded PowerPC systems, put all initialized global and static
     data in the '.data' section, and all uninitialized data in the
     '.bss' section.

'-mreadonly-in-sdata'
     Put read-only objects in the '.sdata' section as well.  This is the
     default.

'-mblock-move-inline-limit=NUM'
     Inline all block moves (such as calls to 'memcpy' or structure
     copies) less than or equal to NUM bytes.  The minimum value for NUM
     is 32 bytes on 32-bit targets and 64 bytes on 64-bit targets.  The
     default value is target-specific.

'-mblock-compare-inline-limit=NUM'
     Generate non-looping inline code for all block compares (such as
     calls to 'memcmp' or structure compares) less than or equal to NUM
     bytes.  If NUM is 0, all inline expansion (non-loop and loop) of
     block compare is disabled.  The default value is target-specific.

'-mblock-compare-inline-loop-limit=NUM'
     Generate an inline expansion using loop code for all block compares
     that are less than or equal to NUM bytes, but greater than the
     limit for non-loop inline block compare expansion.  If the block
     length is not constant, at most NUM bytes will be compared before
     'memcmp' is called to compare the remainder of the block.  The
     default value is target-specific.

'-mstring-compare-inline-limit=NUM'
     Compare at most NUM string bytes with inline code.  If the
     difference or end of string is not found at the end of the inline
     compare a call to 'strcmp' or 'strncmp' will take care of the rest
     of the comparison.  The default is 64 bytes.

'-G NUM'
     On embedded PowerPC systems, put global and static items less than
     or equal to NUM bytes into the small data or BSS sections instead
     of the normal data or BSS section.  By default, NUM is 8.  The '-G
     NUM' switch is also passed to the linker.  All modules should be
     compiled with the same '-G NUM' value.

'-mregnames'
'-mno-regnames'
     On System V.4 and embedded PowerPC systems do (do not) emit
     register names in the assembly language output using symbolic
     forms.

'-mlongcall'
'-mno-longcall'
     By default assume that all calls are far away so that a longer and
     more expensive calling sequence is required.  This is required for
     calls farther than 32 megabytes (33,554,432 bytes) from the current
     location.  A short call is generated if the compiler knows the call
     cannot be that far away.  This setting can be overridden by the
     'shortcall' function attribute, or by '#pragma longcall(0)'.

     Some linkers are capable of detecting out-of-range calls and
     generating glue code on the fly.  On these systems, long calls are
     unnecessary and generate slower code.  As of this writing, the AIX
     linker can do this, as can the GNU linker for PowerPC/64.  It is
     planned to add this feature to the GNU linker for 32-bit PowerPC
     systems as well.

     On PowerPC64 ELFv2 and 32-bit PowerPC systems with newer GNU
     linkers, GCC can generate long calls using an inline PLT call
     sequence (see '-mpltseq').  PowerPC with '-mbss-plt' and PowerPC64
     ELFv1 (big-endian) do not support inline PLT calls.

     On Darwin/PPC systems, '#pragma longcall' generates 'jbsr callee,
     L42', plus a "branch island" (glue code).  The two target addresses
     represent the callee and the branch island.  The Darwin/PPC linker
     prefers the first address and generates a 'bl callee' if the PPC
     'bl' instruction reaches the callee directly; otherwise, the linker
     generates 'bl L42' to call the branch island.  The branch island is
     appended to the body of the calling function; it computes the full
     32-bit address of the callee and jumps to it.

     On Mach-O (Darwin) systems, this option directs the compiler emit
     to the glue for every direct call, and the Darwin linker decides
     whether to use or discard it.

     In the future, GCC may ignore all longcall specifications when the
     linker is known to generate glue.

'-mpltseq'
'-mno-pltseq'
     Implement (do not implement) -fno-plt and long calls using an
     inline PLT call sequence that supports lazy linking and long calls
     to functions in dlopen'd shared libraries.  Inline PLT calls are
     only supported on PowerPC64 ELFv2 and 32-bit PowerPC systems with
     newer GNU linkers, and are enabled by default if the support is
     detected when configuring GCC, and, in the case of 32-bit PowerPC,
     if GCC is configured with '--enable-secureplt'.  '-mpltseq' code
     and '-mbss-plt' 32-bit PowerPC relocatable objects may not be
     linked together.

'-mtls-markers'
'-mno-tls-markers'
     Mark (do not mark) calls to '__tls_get_addr' with a relocation
     specifying the function argument.  The relocation allows the linker
     to reliably associate function call with argument setup
     instructions for TLS optimization, which in turn allows GCC to
     better schedule the sequence.

'-mrecip'
'-mno-recip'
     This option enables use of the reciprocal estimate and reciprocal
     square root estimate instructions with additional Newton-Raphson
     steps to increase precision instead of doing a divide or square
     root and divide for floating-point arguments.  You should use the
     '-ffast-math' option when using '-mrecip' (or at least
     '-funsafe-math-optimizations', '-ffinite-math-only',
     '-freciprocal-math' and '-fno-trapping-math').  Note that while the
     throughput of the sequence is generally higher than the throughput
     of the non-reciprocal instruction, the precision of the sequence
     can be decreased by up to 2 ulp (i.e. the inverse of 1.0 equals
     0.99999994) for reciprocal square roots.

'-mrecip=OPT'
     This option controls which reciprocal estimate instructions may be
     used.  OPT is a comma-separated list of options, which may be
     preceded by a '!' to invert the option:

     'all'
          Enable all estimate instructions.

     'default'
          Enable the default instructions, equivalent to '-mrecip'.

     'none'
          Disable all estimate instructions, equivalent to '-mno-recip'.

     'div'
          Enable the reciprocal approximation instructions for both
          single and double precision.

     'divf'
          Enable the single-precision reciprocal approximation
          instructions.

     'divd'
          Enable the double-precision reciprocal approximation
          instructions.

     'rsqrt'
          Enable the reciprocal square root approximation instructions
          for both single and double precision.

     'rsqrtf'
          Enable the single-precision reciprocal square root
          approximation instructions.

     'rsqrtd'
          Enable the double-precision reciprocal square root
          approximation instructions.

     So, for example, '-mrecip=all,!rsqrtd' enables all of the
     reciprocal estimate instructions, except for the 'FRSQRTE',
     'XSRSQRTEDP', and 'XVRSQRTEDP' instructions which handle the
     double-precision reciprocal square root calculations.

'-mrecip-precision'
'-mno-recip-precision'
     Assume (do not assume) that the reciprocal estimate instructions
     provide higher-precision estimates than is mandated by the PowerPC
     ABI. Selecting '-mcpu=power6', '-mcpu=power7' or '-mcpu=power8'
     automatically selects '-mrecip-precision'.  The double-precision
     square root estimate instructions are not generated by default on
     low-precision machines, since they do not provide an estimate that
     converges after three steps.

'-mveclibabi=TYPE'
     Specifies the ABI type to use for vectorizing intrinsics using an
     external library.  The only type supported at present is 'mass',
     which specifies to use IBM's Mathematical Acceleration Subsystem
     (MASS) libraries for vectorizing intrinsics using external
     libraries.  GCC currently emits calls to 'acosd2', 'acosf4',
     'acoshd2', 'acoshf4', 'asind2', 'asinf4', 'asinhd2', 'asinhf4',
     'atan2d2', 'atan2f4', 'atand2', 'atanf4', 'atanhd2', 'atanhf4',
     'cbrtd2', 'cbrtf4', 'cosd2', 'cosf4', 'coshd2', 'coshf4', 'erfcd2',
     'erfcf4', 'erfd2', 'erff4', 'exp2d2', 'exp2f4', 'expd2', 'expf4',
     'expm1d2', 'expm1f4', 'hypotd2', 'hypotf4', 'lgammad2', 'lgammaf4',
     'log10d2', 'log10f4', 'log1pd2', 'log1pf4', 'log2d2', 'log2f4',
     'logd2', 'logf4', 'powd2', 'powf4', 'sind2', 'sinf4', 'sinhd2',
     'sinhf4', 'sqrtd2', 'sqrtf4', 'tand2', 'tanf4', 'tanhd2', and
     'tanhf4' when generating code for power7.  Both '-ftree-vectorize'
     and '-funsafe-math-optimizations' must also be enabled.  The MASS
     libraries must be specified at link time.

'-mfriz'
'-mno-friz'
     Generate (do not generate) the 'friz' instruction when the
     '-funsafe-math-optimizations' option is used to optimize rounding
     of floating-point values to 64-bit integer and back to floating
     point.  The 'friz' instruction does not return the same value if
     the floating-point number is too large to fit in an integer.

'-mpointers-to-nested-functions'
'-mno-pointers-to-nested-functions'
     Generate (do not generate) code to load up the static chain
     register ('r11') when calling through a pointer on AIX and 64-bit
     Linux systems where a function pointer points to a 3-word
     descriptor giving the function address, TOC value to be loaded in
     register 'r2', and static chain value to be loaded in register
     'r11'.  The '-mpointers-to-nested-functions' is on by default.  You
     cannot call through pointers to nested functions or pointers to
     functions compiled in other languages that use the static chain if
     you use '-mno-pointers-to-nested-functions'.

'-msave-toc-indirect'
'-mno-save-toc-indirect'
     Generate (do not generate) code to save the TOC value in the
     reserved stack location in the function prologue if the function
     calls through a pointer on AIX and 64-bit Linux systems.  If the
     TOC value is not saved in the prologue, it is saved just before the
     call through the pointer.  The '-mno-save-toc-indirect' option is
     the default.

'-mcompat-align-parm'
'-mno-compat-align-parm'
     Generate (do not generate) code to pass structure parameters with a
     maximum alignment of 64 bits, for compatibility with older versions
     of GCC.

     Older versions of GCC (prior to 4.9.0) incorrectly did not align a
     structure parameter on a 128-bit boundary when that structure
     contained a member requiring 128-bit alignment.  This is corrected
     in more recent versions of GCC. This option may be used to generate
     code that is compatible with functions compiled with older versions
     of GCC.

     The '-mno-compat-align-parm' option is the default.

'-mstack-protector-guard=GUARD'
'-mstack-protector-guard-reg=REG'
'-mstack-protector-guard-offset=OFFSET'
'-mstack-protector-guard-symbol=SYMBOL'
     Generate stack protection code using canary at GUARD.  Supported
     locations are 'global' for global canary or 'tls' for per-thread
     canary in the TLS block (the default with GNU libc version 2.4 or
     later).

     With the latter choice the options
     '-mstack-protector-guard-reg=REG' and
     '-mstack-protector-guard-offset=OFFSET' furthermore specify which
     register to use as base register for reading the canary, and from
     what offset from that base register.  The default for those is as
     specified in the relevant ABI.
     '-mstack-protector-guard-symbol=SYMBOL' overrides the offset with a
     symbol reference to a canary in the TLS block.

File: gcc.info,  Node: RX Options,  Next: S/390 and zSeries Options,  Prev: RS/6000 and PowerPC Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.43 RX Options
------------------

These command-line options are defined for RX targets:

'-m64bit-doubles'
'-m32bit-doubles'
     Make the 'double' data type be 64 bits ('-m64bit-doubles') or 32
     bits ('-m32bit-doubles') in size.  The default is
     '-m32bit-doubles'.  _Note_ RX floating-point hardware only works on
     32-bit values, which is why the default is '-m32bit-doubles'.

'-fpu'
'-nofpu'
     Enables ('-fpu') or disables ('-nofpu') the use of RX
     floating-point hardware.  The default is enabled for the RX600
     series and disabled for the RX200 series.

     Floating-point instructions are only generated for 32-bit
     floating-point values, however, so the FPU hardware is not used for
     doubles if the '-m64bit-doubles' option is used.

     _Note_ If the '-fpu' option is enabled then
     '-funsafe-math-optimizations' is also enabled automatically.  This
     is because the RX FPU instructions are themselves unsafe.

'-mcpu=NAME'
     Selects the type of RX CPU to be targeted.  Currently three types
     are supported, the generic 'RX600' and 'RX200' series hardware and
     the specific 'RX610' CPU. The default is 'RX600'.

     The only difference between 'RX600' and 'RX610' is that the 'RX610'
     does not support the 'MVTIPL' instruction.

     The 'RX200' series does not have a hardware floating-point unit and
     so '-nofpu' is enabled by default when this type is selected.

'-mbig-endian-data'
'-mlittle-endian-data'
     Store data (but not code) in the big-endian format.  The default is
     '-mlittle-endian-data', i.e. to store data in the little-endian
     format.

'-msmall-data-limit=N'
     Specifies the maximum size in bytes of global and static variables
     which can be placed into the small data area.  Using the small data
     area can lead to smaller and faster code, but the size of area is
     limited and it is up to the programmer to ensure that the area does
     not overflow.  Also when the small data area is used one of the
     RX's registers (usually 'r13') is reserved for use pointing to this
     area, so it is no longer available for use by the compiler.  This
     could result in slower and/or larger code if variables are pushed
     onto the stack instead of being held in this register.

     Note, common variables (variables that have not been initialized)
     and constants are not placed into the small data area as they are
     assigned to other sections in the output executable.

     The default value is zero, which disables this feature.  Note, this
     feature is not enabled by default with higher optimization levels
     ('-O2' etc) because of the potentially detrimental effects of
     reserving a register.  It is up to the programmer to experiment and
     discover whether this feature is of benefit to their program.  See
     the description of the '-mpid' option for a description of how the
     actual register to hold the small data area pointer is chosen.

'-msim'
'-mno-sim'
     Use the simulator runtime.  The default is to use the libgloss
     board-specific runtime.

'-mas100-syntax'
'-mno-as100-syntax'
     When generating assembler output use a syntax that is compatible
     with Renesas's AS100 assembler.  This syntax can also be handled by
     the GAS assembler, but it has some restrictions so it is not
     generated by default.

'-mmax-constant-size=N'
     Specifies the maximum size, in bytes, of a constant that can be
     used as an operand in a RX instruction.  Although the RX
     instruction set does allow constants of up to 4 bytes in length to
     be used in instructions, a longer value equates to a longer
     instruction.  Thus in some circumstances it can be beneficial to
     restrict the size of constants that are used in instructions.
     Constants that are too big are instead placed into a constant pool
     and referenced via register indirection.

     The value N can be between 0 and 4.  A value of 0 (the default) or
     4 means that constants of any size are allowed.

'-mrelax'
     Enable linker relaxation.  Linker relaxation is a process whereby
     the linker attempts to reduce the size of a program by finding
     shorter versions of various instructions.  Disabled by default.

'-mint-register=N'
     Specify the number of registers to reserve for fast interrupt
     handler functions.  The value N can be between 0 and 4.  A value of
     1 means that register 'r13' is reserved for the exclusive use of
     fast interrupt handlers.  A value of 2 reserves 'r13' and 'r12'.  A
     value of 3 reserves 'r13', 'r12' and 'r11', and a value of 4
     reserves 'r13' through 'r10'.  A value of 0, the default, does not
     reserve any registers.

'-msave-acc-in-interrupts'
     Specifies that interrupt handler functions should preserve the
     accumulator register.  This is only necessary if normal code might
     use the accumulator register, for example because it performs
     64-bit multiplications.  The default is to ignore the accumulator
     as this makes the interrupt handlers faster.

'-mpid'
'-mno-pid'
     Enables the generation of position independent data.  When enabled
     any access to constant data is done via an offset from a base
     address held in a register.  This allows the location of constant
     data to be determined at run time without requiring the executable
     to be relocated, which is a benefit to embedded applications with
     tight memory constraints.  Data that can be modified is not
     affected by this option.

     Note, using this feature reserves a register, usually 'r13', for
     the constant data base address.  This can result in slower and/or
     larger code, especially in complicated functions.

     The actual register chosen to hold the constant data base address
     depends upon whether the '-msmall-data-limit' and/or the
     '-mint-register' command-line options are enabled.  Starting with
     register 'r13' and proceeding downwards, registers are allocated
     first to satisfy the requirements of '-mint-register', then '-mpid'
     and finally '-msmall-data-limit'.  Thus it is possible for the
     small data area register to be 'r8' if both '-mint-register=4' and
     '-mpid' are specified on the command line.

     By default this feature is not enabled.  The default can be
     restored via the '-mno-pid' command-line option.

'-mno-warn-multiple-fast-interrupts'
'-mwarn-multiple-fast-interrupts'
     Prevents GCC from issuing a warning message if it finds more than
     one fast interrupt handler when it is compiling a file.  The
     default is to issue a warning for each extra fast interrupt handler
     found, as the RX only supports one such interrupt.

'-mallow-string-insns'
'-mno-allow-string-insns'
     Enables or disables the use of the string manipulation instructions
     'SMOVF', 'SCMPU', 'SMOVB', 'SMOVU', 'SUNTIL' 'SWHILE' and also the
     'RMPA' instruction.  These instructions may prefetch data, which is
     not safe to do if accessing an I/O register.  (See section 12.2.7
     of the RX62N Group User's Manual for more information).

     The default is to allow these instructions, but it is not possible
     for GCC to reliably detect all circumstances where a string
     instruction might be used to access an I/O register, so their use
     cannot be disabled automatically.  Instead it is reliant upon the
     programmer to use the '-mno-allow-string-insns' option if their
     program accesses I/O space.

     When the instructions are enabled GCC defines the C preprocessor
     symbol '__RX_ALLOW_STRING_INSNS__', otherwise it defines the symbol
     '__RX_DISALLOW_STRING_INSNS__'.

'-mjsr'
'-mno-jsr'
     Use only (or not only) 'JSR' instructions to access functions.
     This option can be used when code size exceeds the range of 'BSR'
     instructions.  Note that '-mno-jsr' does not mean to not use 'JSR'
     but instead means that any type of branch may be used.

 _Note:_ The generic GCC command-line option '-ffixed-REG' has special
significance to the RX port when used with the 'interrupt' function
attribute.  This attribute indicates a function intended to process fast
interrupts.  GCC ensures that it only uses the registers 'r10', 'r11',
'r12' and/or 'r13' and only provided that the normal use of the
corresponding registers have been restricted via the '-ffixed-REG' or
'-mint-register' command-line options.

File: gcc.info,  Node: S/390 and zSeries Options,  Next: Score Options,  Prev: RX Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.44 S/390 and zSeries Options
---------------------------------

These are the '-m' options defined for the S/390 and zSeries
architecture.

'-mhard-float'
'-msoft-float'
     Use (do not use) the hardware floating-point instructions and
     registers for floating-point operations.  When '-msoft-float' is
     specified, functions in 'libgcc.a' are used to perform
     floating-point operations.  When '-mhard-float' is specified, the
     compiler generates IEEE floating-point instructions.  This is the
     default.

'-mhard-dfp'
'-mno-hard-dfp'
     Use (do not use) the hardware decimal-floating-point instructions
     for decimal-floating-point operations.  When '-mno-hard-dfp' is
     specified, functions in 'libgcc.a' are used to perform
     decimal-floating-point operations.  When '-mhard-dfp' is specified,
     the compiler generates decimal-floating-point hardware
     instructions.  This is the default for '-march=z9-ec' or higher.

'-mlong-double-64'
'-mlong-double-128'
     These switches control the size of 'long double' type.  A size of
     64 bits makes the 'long double' type equivalent to the 'double'
     type.  This is the default.

'-mbackchain'
'-mno-backchain'
     Store (do not store) the address of the caller's frame as backchain
     pointer into the callee's stack frame.  A backchain may be needed
     to allow debugging using tools that do not understand DWARF call
     frame information.  When '-mno-packed-stack' is in effect, the
     backchain pointer is stored at the bottom of the stack frame; when
     '-mpacked-stack' is in effect, the backchain is placed into the
     topmost word of the 96/160 byte register save area.

     In general, code compiled with '-mbackchain' is call-compatible
     with code compiled with '-mmo-backchain'; however, use of the
     backchain for debugging purposes usually requires that the whole
     binary is built with '-mbackchain'.  Note that the combination of
     '-mbackchain', '-mpacked-stack' and '-mhard-float' is not
     supported.  In order to build a linux kernel use '-msoft-float'.

     The default is to not maintain the backchain.

'-mpacked-stack'
'-mno-packed-stack'
     Use (do not use) the packed stack layout.  When '-mno-packed-stack'
     is specified, the compiler uses the all fields of the 96/160 byte
     register save area only for their default purpose; unused fields
     still take up stack space.  When '-mpacked-stack' is specified,
     register save slots are densely packed at the top of the register
     save area; unused space is reused for other purposes, allowing for
     more efficient use of the available stack space.  However, when
     '-mbackchain' is also in effect, the topmost word of the save area
     is always used to store the backchain, and the return address
     register is always saved two words below the backchain.

     As long as the stack frame backchain is not used, code generated
     with '-mpacked-stack' is call-compatible with code generated with
     '-mno-packed-stack'.  Note that some non-FSF releases of GCC 2.95
     for S/390 or zSeries generated code that uses the stack frame
     backchain at run time, not just for debugging purposes.  Such code
     is not call-compatible with code compiled with '-mpacked-stack'.
     Also, note that the combination of '-mbackchain', '-mpacked-stack'
     and '-mhard-float' is not supported.  In order to build a linux
     kernel use '-msoft-float'.

     The default is to not use the packed stack layout.

'-msmall-exec'
'-mno-small-exec'
     Generate (or do not generate) code using the 'bras' instruction to
     do subroutine calls.  This only works reliably if the total
     executable size does not exceed 64k.  The default is to use the
     'basr' instruction instead, which does not have this limitation.

'-m64'
'-m31'
     When '-m31' is specified, generate code compliant to the GNU/Linux
     for S/390 ABI.  When '-m64' is specified, generate code compliant
     to the GNU/Linux for zSeries ABI.  This allows GCC in particular to
     generate 64-bit instructions.  For the 's390' targets, the default
     is '-m31', while the 's390x' targets default to '-m64'.

'-mzarch'
'-mesa'
     When '-mzarch' is specified, generate code using the instructions
     available on z/Architecture.  When '-mesa' is specified, generate
     code using the instructions available on ESA/390.  Note that
     '-mesa' is not possible with '-m64'.  When generating code
     compliant to the GNU/Linux for S/390 ABI, the default is '-mesa'.
     When generating code compliant to the GNU/Linux for zSeries ABI,
     the default is '-mzarch'.

'-mhtm'
'-mno-htm'
     The '-mhtm' option enables a set of builtins making use of
     instructions available with the transactional execution facility
     introduced with the IBM zEnterprise EC12 machine generation *note
     S/390 System z Built-in Functions::.  '-mhtm' is enabled by default
     when using '-march=zEC12'.

'-mvx'
'-mno-vx'
     When '-mvx' is specified, generate code using the instructions
     available with the vector extension facility introduced with the
     IBM z13 machine generation.  This option changes the ABI for some
     vector type values with regard to alignment and calling
     conventions.  In case vector type values are being used in an
     ABI-relevant context a GAS '.gnu_attribute' command will be added
     to mark the resulting binary with the ABI used.  '-mvx' is enabled
     by default when using '-march=z13'.

'-mzvector'
'-mno-zvector'
     The '-mzvector' option enables vector language extensions and
     builtins using instructions available with the vector extension
     facility introduced with the IBM z13 machine generation.  This
     option adds support for 'vector' to be used as a keyword to define
     vector type variables and arguments.  'vector' is only available
     when GNU extensions are enabled.  It will not be expanded when
     requesting strict standard compliance e.g. with '-std=c99'.  In
     addition to the GCC low-level builtins '-mzvector' enables a set of
     builtins added for compatibility with AltiVec-style implementations
     like Power and Cell.  In order to make use of these builtins the
     header file 'vecintrin.h' needs to be included.  '-mzvector' is
     disabled by default.

'-mmvcle'
'-mno-mvcle'
     Generate (or do not generate) code using the 'mvcle' instruction to
     perform block moves.  When '-mno-mvcle' is specified, use a 'mvc'
     loop instead.  This is the default unless optimizing for size.

'-mdebug'
'-mno-debug'
     Print (or do not print) additional debug information when
     compiling.  The default is to not print debug information.

'-march=CPU-TYPE'
     Generate code that runs on CPU-TYPE, which is the name of a system
     representing a certain processor type.  Possible values for
     CPU-TYPE are 'z900'/'arch5', 'z990'/'arch6', 'z9-109',
     'z9-ec'/'arch7', 'z10'/'arch8', 'z196'/'arch9', 'zEC12',
     'z13'/'arch11', 'z14'/'arch12', and 'native'.

     The default is '-march=z900'.

     Specifying 'native' as cpu type can be used to select the best
     architecture option for the host processor.  '-march=native' has no
     effect if GCC does not recognize the processor.

'-mtune=CPU-TYPE'
     Tune to CPU-TYPE everything applicable about the generated code,
     except for the ABI and the set of available instructions.  The list
     of CPU-TYPE values is the same as for '-march'.  The default is the
     value used for '-march'.

'-mtpf-trace'
'-mno-tpf-trace'
     Generate code that adds (does not add) in TPF OS specific branches
     to trace routines in the operating system.  This option is off by
     default, even when compiling for the TPF OS.

'-mfused-madd'
'-mno-fused-madd'
     Generate code that uses (does not use) the floating-point multiply
     and accumulate instructions.  These instructions are generated by
     default if hardware floating point is used.

'-mwarn-framesize=FRAMESIZE'
     Emit a warning if the current function exceeds the given frame
     size.  Because this is a compile-time check it doesn't need to be a
     real problem when the program runs.  It is intended to identify
     functions that most probably cause a stack overflow.  It is useful
     to be used in an environment with limited stack size e.g. the linux
     kernel.

'-mwarn-dynamicstack'
     Emit a warning if the function calls 'alloca' or uses
     dynamically-sized arrays.  This is generally a bad idea with a
     limited stack size.

'-mstack-guard=STACK-GUARD'
'-mstack-size=STACK-SIZE'
     If these options are provided the S/390 back end emits additional
     instructions in the function prologue that trigger a trap if the
     stack size is STACK-GUARD bytes above the STACK-SIZE (remember that
     the stack on S/390 grows downward).  If the STACK-GUARD option is
     omitted the smallest power of 2 larger than the frame size of the
     compiled function is chosen.  These options are intended to be used
     to help debugging stack overflow problems.  The additionally
     emitted code causes only little overhead and hence can also be used
     in production-like systems without greater performance degradation.
     The given values have to be exact powers of 2 and STACK-SIZE has to
     be greater than STACK-GUARD without exceeding 64k.  In order to be
     efficient the extra code makes the assumption that the stack starts
     at an address aligned to the value given by STACK-SIZE.  The
     STACK-GUARD option can only be used in conjunction with STACK-SIZE.

'-mhotpatch=PRE-HALFWORDS,POST-HALFWORDS'
     If the hotpatch option is enabled, a "hot-patching" function
     prologue is generated for all functions in the compilation unit.
     The funtion label is prepended with the given number of two-byte
     NOP instructions (PRE-HALFWORDS, maximum 1000000).  After the
     label, 2 * POST-HALFWORDS bytes are appended, using the largest NOP
     like instructions the architecture allows (maximum 1000000).

     If both arguments are zero, hotpatching is disabled.

     This option can be overridden for individual functions with the
     'hotpatch' attribute.

File: gcc.info,  Node: Score Options,  Next: SH Options,  Prev: S/390 and zSeries Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.45 Score Options
---------------------

These options are defined for Score implementations:

'-meb'
     Compile code for big-endian mode.  This is the default.

'-mel'
     Compile code for little-endian mode.

'-mnhwloop'
     Disable generation of 'bcnz' instructions.

'-muls'
     Enable generation of unaligned load and store instructions.

'-mmac'
     Enable the use of multiply-accumulate instructions.  Disabled by
     default.

'-mscore5'
     Specify the SCORE5 as the target architecture.

'-mscore5u'
     Specify the SCORE5U of the target architecture.

'-mscore7'
     Specify the SCORE7 as the target architecture.  This is the
     default.

'-mscore7d'
     Specify the SCORE7D as the target architecture.

File: gcc.info,  Node: SH Options,  Next: Solaris 2 Options,  Prev: Score Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.46 SH Options
------------------

These '-m' options are defined for the SH implementations:

'-m1'
     Generate code for the SH1.

'-m2'
     Generate code for the SH2.

'-m2e'
     Generate code for the SH2e.

'-m2a-nofpu'
     Generate code for the SH2a without FPU, or for a SH2a-FPU in such a
     way that the floating-point unit is not used.

'-m2a-single-only'
     Generate code for the SH2a-FPU, in such a way that no
     double-precision floating-point operations are used.

'-m2a-single'
     Generate code for the SH2a-FPU assuming the floating-point unit is
     in single-precision mode by default.

'-m2a'
     Generate code for the SH2a-FPU assuming the floating-point unit is
     in double-precision mode by default.

'-m3'
     Generate code for the SH3.

'-m3e'
     Generate code for the SH3e.

'-m4-nofpu'
     Generate code for the SH4 without a floating-point unit.

'-m4-single-only'
     Generate code for the SH4 with a floating-point unit that only
     supports single-precision arithmetic.

'-m4-single'
     Generate code for the SH4 assuming the floating-point unit is in
     single-precision mode by default.

'-m4'
     Generate code for the SH4.

'-m4-100'
     Generate code for SH4-100.

'-m4-100-nofpu'
     Generate code for SH4-100 in such a way that the floating-point
     unit is not used.

'-m4-100-single'
     Generate code for SH4-100 assuming the floating-point unit is in
     single-precision mode by default.

'-m4-100-single-only'
     Generate code for SH4-100 in such a way that no double-precision
     floating-point operations are used.

'-m4-200'
     Generate code for SH4-200.

'-m4-200-nofpu'
     Generate code for SH4-200 without in such a way that the
     floating-point unit is not used.

'-m4-200-single'
     Generate code for SH4-200 assuming the floating-point unit is in
     single-precision mode by default.

'-m4-200-single-only'
     Generate code for SH4-200 in such a way that no double-precision
     floating-point operations are used.

'-m4-300'
     Generate code for SH4-300.

'-m4-300-nofpu'
     Generate code for SH4-300 without in such a way that the
     floating-point unit is not used.

'-m4-300-single'
     Generate code for SH4-300 in such a way that no double-precision
     floating-point operations are used.

'-m4-300-single-only'
     Generate code for SH4-300 in such a way that no double-precision
     floating-point operations are used.

'-m4-340'
     Generate code for SH4-340 (no MMU, no FPU).

'-m4-500'
     Generate code for SH4-500 (no FPU). Passes '-isa=sh4-nofpu' to the
     assembler.

'-m4a-nofpu'
     Generate code for the SH4al-dsp, or for a SH4a in such a way that
     the floating-point unit is not used.

'-m4a-single-only'
     Generate code for the SH4a, in such a way that no double-precision
     floating-point operations are used.

'-m4a-single'
     Generate code for the SH4a assuming the floating-point unit is in
     single-precision mode by default.

'-m4a'
     Generate code for the SH4a.

'-m4al'
     Same as '-m4a-nofpu', except that it implicitly passes '-dsp' to
     the assembler.  GCC doesn't generate any DSP instructions at the
     moment.

'-mb'
     Compile code for the processor in big-endian mode.

'-ml'
     Compile code for the processor in little-endian mode.

'-mdalign'
     Align doubles at 64-bit boundaries.  Note that this changes the
     calling conventions, and thus some functions from the standard C
     library do not work unless you recompile it first with '-mdalign'.

'-mrelax'
     Shorten some address references at link time, when possible; uses
     the linker option '-relax'.

'-mbigtable'
     Use 32-bit offsets in 'switch' tables.  The default is to use
     16-bit offsets.

'-mbitops'
     Enable the use of bit manipulation instructions on SH2A.

'-mfmovd'
     Enable the use of the instruction 'fmovd'.  Check '-mdalign' for
     alignment constraints.

'-mrenesas'
     Comply with the calling conventions defined by Renesas.

'-mno-renesas'
     Comply with the calling conventions defined for GCC before the
     Renesas conventions were available.  This option is the default for
     all targets of the SH toolchain.

'-mnomacsave'
     Mark the 'MAC' register as call-clobbered, even if '-mrenesas' is
     given.

'-mieee'
'-mno-ieee'
     Control the IEEE compliance of floating-point comparisons, which
     affects the handling of cases where the result of a comparison is
     unordered.  By default '-mieee' is implicitly enabled.  If
     '-ffinite-math-only' is enabled '-mno-ieee' is implicitly set,
     which results in faster floating-point greater-equal and less-equal
     comparisons.  The implicit settings can be overridden by specifying
     either '-mieee' or '-mno-ieee'.

'-minline-ic_invalidate'
     Inline code to invalidate instruction cache entries after setting
     up nested function trampolines.  This option has no effect if
     '-musermode' is in effect and the selected code generation option
     (e.g. '-m4') does not allow the use of the 'icbi' instruction.  If
     the selected code generation option does not allow the use of the
     'icbi' instruction, and '-musermode' is not in effect, the inlined
     code manipulates the instruction cache address array directly with
     an associative write.  This not only requires privileged mode at
     run time, but it also fails if the cache line had been mapped via
     the TLB and has become unmapped.

'-misize'
     Dump instruction size and location in the assembly code.

'-mpadstruct'
     This option is deprecated.  It pads structures to multiple of 4
     bytes, which is incompatible with the SH ABI.

'-matomic-model=MODEL'
     Sets the model of atomic operations and additional parameters as a
     comma separated list.  For details on the atomic built-in functions
     see *note __atomic Builtins::.  The following models and parameters
     are supported:

     'none'
          Disable compiler generated atomic sequences and emit library
          calls for atomic operations.  This is the default if the
          target is not 'sh*-*-linux*'.

     'soft-gusa'
          Generate GNU/Linux compatible gUSA software atomic sequences
          for the atomic built-in functions.  The generated atomic
          sequences require additional support from the
          interrupt/exception handling code of the system and are only
          suitable for SH3* and SH4* single-core systems.  This option
          is enabled by default when the target is 'sh*-*-linux*' and
          SH3* or SH4*.  When the target is SH4A, this option also
          partially utilizes the hardware atomic instructions 'movli.l'
          and 'movco.l' to create more efficient code, unless 'strict'
          is specified.

     'soft-tcb'
          Generate software atomic sequences that use a variable in the
          thread control block.  This is a variation of the gUSA
          sequences which can also be used on SH1* and SH2* targets.
          The generated atomic sequences require additional support from
          the interrupt/exception handling code of the system and are
          only suitable for single-core systems.  When using this model,
          the 'gbr-offset=' parameter has to be specified as well.

     'soft-imask'
          Generate software atomic sequences that temporarily disable
          interrupts by setting 'SR.IMASK = 1111'.  This model works
          only when the program runs in privileged mode and is only
          suitable for single-core systems.  Additional support from the
          interrupt/exception handling code of the system is not
          required.  This model is enabled by default when the target is
          'sh*-*-linux*' and SH1* or SH2*.

     'hard-llcs'
          Generate hardware atomic sequences using the 'movli.l' and
          'movco.l' instructions only.  This is only available on SH4A
          and is suitable for multi-core systems.  Since the hardware
          instructions support only 32 bit atomic variables access to 8
          or 16 bit variables is emulated with 32 bit accesses.  Code
          compiled with this option is also compatible with other
          software atomic model interrupt/exception handling systems if
          executed on an SH4A system.  Additional support from the
          interrupt/exception handling code of the system is not
          required for this model.

     'gbr-offset='
          This parameter specifies the offset in bytes of the variable
          in the thread control block structure that should be used by
          the generated atomic sequences when the 'soft-tcb' model has
          been selected.  For other models this parameter is ignored.
          The specified value must be an integer multiple of four and in
          the range 0-1020.

     'strict'
          This parameter prevents mixed usage of multiple atomic models,
          even if they are compatible, and makes the compiler generate
          atomic sequences of the specified model only.

'-mtas'
     Generate the 'tas.b' opcode for '__atomic_test_and_set'.  Notice
     that depending on the particular hardware and software
     configuration this can degrade overall performance due to the
     operand cache line flushes that are implied by the 'tas.b'
     instruction.  On multi-core SH4A processors the 'tas.b' instruction
     must be used with caution since it can result in data corruption
     for certain cache configurations.

'-mprefergot'
     When generating position-independent code, emit function calls
     using the Global Offset Table instead of the Procedure Linkage
     Table.

'-musermode'
'-mno-usermode'
     Don't allow (allow) the compiler generating privileged mode code.
     Specifying '-musermode' also implies '-mno-inline-ic_invalidate' if
     the inlined code would not work in user mode.  '-musermode' is the
     default when the target is 'sh*-*-linux*'.  If the target is SH1*
     or SH2* '-musermode' has no effect, since there is no user mode.

'-multcost=NUMBER'
     Set the cost to assume for a multiply insn.

'-mdiv=STRATEGY'
     Set the division strategy to be used for integer division
     operations.  STRATEGY can be one of:

     'call-div1'
          Calls a library function that uses the single-step division
          instruction 'div1' to perform the operation.  Division by zero
          calculates an unspecified result and does not trap.  This is
          the default except for SH4, SH2A and SHcompact.

     'call-fp'
          Calls a library function that performs the operation in double
          precision floating point.  Division by zero causes a
          floating-point exception.  This is the default for SHcompact
          with FPU. Specifying this for targets that do not have a
          double precision FPU defaults to 'call-div1'.

     'call-table'
          Calls a library function that uses a lookup table for small
          divisors and the 'div1' instruction with case distinction for
          larger divisors.  Division by zero calculates an unspecified
          result and does not trap.  This is the default for SH4.
          Specifying this for targets that do not have dynamic shift
          instructions defaults to 'call-div1'.

     When a division strategy has not been specified the default
     strategy is selected based on the current target.  For SH2A the
     default strategy is to use the 'divs' and 'divu' instructions
     instead of library function calls.

'-maccumulate-outgoing-args'
     Reserve space once for outgoing arguments in the function prologue
     rather than around each call.  Generally beneficial for performance
     and size.  Also needed for unwinding to avoid changing the stack
     frame around conditional code.

'-mdivsi3_libfunc=NAME'
     Set the name of the library function used for 32-bit signed
     division to NAME.  This only affects the name used in the 'call'
     division strategies, and the compiler still expects the same sets
     of input/output/clobbered registers as if this option were not
     present.

'-mfixed-range=REGISTER-RANGE'
     Generate code treating the given register range as fixed registers.
     A fixed register is one that the register allocator cannot use.
     This is useful when compiling kernel code.  A register range is
     specified as two registers separated by a dash.  Multiple register
     ranges can be specified separated by a comma.

'-mbranch-cost=NUM'
     Assume NUM to be the cost for a branch instruction.  Higher numbers
     make the compiler try to generate more branch-free code if
     possible.  If not specified the value is selected depending on the
     processor type that is being compiled for.

'-mzdcbranch'
'-mno-zdcbranch'
     Assume (do not assume) that zero displacement conditional branch
     instructions 'bt' and 'bf' are fast.  If '-mzdcbranch' is
     specified, the compiler prefers zero displacement branch code
     sequences.  This is enabled by default when generating code for SH4
     and SH4A. It can be explicitly disabled by specifying
     '-mno-zdcbranch'.

'-mcbranch-force-delay-slot'
     Force the usage of delay slots for conditional branches, which
     stuffs the delay slot with a 'nop' if a suitable instruction cannot
     be found.  By default this option is disabled.  It can be enabled
     to work around hardware bugs as found in the original SH7055.

'-mfused-madd'
'-mno-fused-madd'
     Generate code that uses (does not use) the floating-point multiply
     and accumulate instructions.  These instructions are generated by
     default if hardware floating point is used.  The machine-dependent
     '-mfused-madd' option is now mapped to the machine-independent
     '-ffp-contract=fast' option, and '-mno-fused-madd' is mapped to
     '-ffp-contract=off'.

'-mfsca'
'-mno-fsca'
     Allow or disallow the compiler to emit the 'fsca' instruction for
     sine and cosine approximations.  The option '-mfsca' must be used
     in combination with '-funsafe-math-optimizations'.  It is enabled
     by default when generating code for SH4A. Using '-mno-fsca'
     disables sine and cosine approximations even if
     '-funsafe-math-optimizations' is in effect.

'-mfsrra'
'-mno-fsrra'
     Allow or disallow the compiler to emit the 'fsrra' instruction for
     reciprocal square root approximations.  The option '-mfsrra' must
     be used in combination with '-funsafe-math-optimizations' and
     '-ffinite-math-only'.  It is enabled by default when generating
     code for SH4A. Using '-mno-fsrra' disables reciprocal square root
     approximations even if '-funsafe-math-optimizations' and
     '-ffinite-math-only' are in effect.

'-mpretend-cmove'
     Prefer zero-displacement conditional branches for conditional move
     instruction patterns.  This can result in faster code on the SH4
     processor.

'-mfdpic'
     Generate code using the FDPIC ABI.

File: gcc.info,  Node: Solaris 2 Options,  Next: SPARC Options,  Prev: SH Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.47 Solaris 2 Options
-------------------------

These '-m' options are supported on Solaris 2:

'-mclear-hwcap'
     '-mclear-hwcap' tells the compiler to remove the hardware
     capabilities generated by the Solaris assembler.  This is only
     necessary when object files use ISA extensions not supported by the
     current machine, but check at runtime whether or not to use them.

'-mimpure-text'
     '-mimpure-text', used in addition to '-shared', tells the compiler
     to not pass '-z text' to the linker when linking a shared object.
     Using this option, you can link position-dependent code into a
     shared object.

     '-mimpure-text' suppresses the "relocations remain against
     allocatable but non-writable sections" linker error message.
     However, the necessary relocations trigger copy-on-write, and the
     shared object is not actually shared across processes.  Instead of
     using '-mimpure-text', you should compile all source code with
     '-fpic' or '-fPIC'.

 These switches are supported in addition to the above on Solaris 2:

'-pthreads'
     This is a synonym for '-pthread'.

File: gcc.info,  Node: SPARC Options,  Next: SPU Options,  Prev: Solaris 2 Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.48 SPARC Options
---------------------

These '-m' options are supported on the SPARC:

'-mno-app-regs'
'-mapp-regs'
     Specify '-mapp-regs' to generate output using the global registers
     2 through 4, which the SPARC SVR4 ABI reserves for applications.
     Like the global register 1, each global register 2 through 4 is
     then treated as an allocable register that is clobbered by function
     calls.  This is the default.

     To be fully SVR4 ABI-compliant at the cost of some performance
     loss, specify '-mno-app-regs'.  You should compile libraries and
     system software with this option.

'-mflat'
'-mno-flat'
     With '-mflat', the compiler does not generate save/restore
     instructions and uses a "flat" or single register window model.
     This model is compatible with the regular register window model.
     The local registers and the input registers (0-5) are still treated
     as "call-saved" registers and are saved on the stack as needed.

     With '-mno-flat' (the default), the compiler generates save/restore
     instructions (except for leaf functions).  This is the normal
     operating mode.

'-mfpu'
'-mhard-float'
     Generate output containing floating-point instructions.  This is
     the default.

'-mno-fpu'
'-msoft-float'
     Generate output containing library calls for floating point.
     *Warning:* the requisite libraries are not available for all SPARC
     targets.  Normally the facilities of the machine's usual C compiler
     are used, but this cannot be done directly in cross-compilation.
     You must make your own arrangements to provide suitable library
     functions for cross-compilation.  The embedded targets
     'sparc-*-aout' and 'sparclite-*-*' do provide software
     floating-point support.

     '-msoft-float' changes the calling convention in the output file;
     therefore, it is only useful if you compile _all_ of a program with
     this option.  In particular, you need to compile 'libgcc.a', the
     library that comes with GCC, with '-msoft-float' in order for this
     to work.

'-mhard-quad-float'
     Generate output containing quad-word (long double) floating-point
     instructions.

'-msoft-quad-float'
     Generate output containing library calls for quad-word (long
     double) floating-point instructions.  The functions called are
     those specified in the SPARC ABI.  This is the default.

     As of this writing, there are no SPARC implementations that have
     hardware support for the quad-word floating-point instructions.
     They all invoke a trap handler for one of these instructions, and
     then the trap handler emulates the effect of the instruction.
     Because of the trap handler overhead, this is much slower than
     calling the ABI library routines.  Thus the '-msoft-quad-float'
     option is the default.

'-mno-unaligned-doubles'
'-munaligned-doubles'
     Assume that doubles have 8-byte alignment.  This is the default.

     With '-munaligned-doubles', GCC assumes that doubles have 8-byte
     alignment only if they are contained in another type, or if they
     have an absolute address.  Otherwise, it assumes they have 4-byte
     alignment.  Specifying this option avoids some rare compatibility
     problems with code generated by other compilers.  It is not the
     default because it results in a performance loss, especially for
     floating-point code.

'-muser-mode'
'-mno-user-mode'
     Do not generate code that can only run in supervisor mode.  This is
     relevant only for the 'casa' instruction emitted for the LEON3
     processor.  This is the default.

'-mfaster-structs'
'-mno-faster-structs'
     With '-mfaster-structs', the compiler assumes that structures
     should have 8-byte alignment.  This enables the use of pairs of
     'ldd' and 'std' instructions for copies in structure assignment, in
     place of twice as many 'ld' and 'st' pairs.  However, the use of
     this changed alignment directly violates the SPARC ABI.  Thus, it's
     intended only for use on targets where the developer acknowledges
     that their resulting code is not directly in line with the rules of
     the ABI.

'-mstd-struct-return'
'-mno-std-struct-return'
     With '-mstd-struct-return', the compiler generates checking code in
     functions returning structures or unions to detect size mismatches
     between the two sides of function calls, as per the 32-bit ABI.

     The default is '-mno-std-struct-return'.  This option has no effect
     in 64-bit mode.

'-mlra'
'-mno-lra'
     Enable Local Register Allocation.  This is the default for SPARC
     since GCC 7 so '-mno-lra' needs to be passed to get old Reload.

'-mcpu=CPU_TYPE'
     Set the instruction set, register set, and instruction scheduling
     parameters for machine type CPU_TYPE.  Supported values for
     CPU_TYPE are 'v7', 'cypress', 'v8', 'supersparc', 'hypersparc',
     'leon', 'leon3', 'leon3v7', 'sparclite', 'f930', 'f934',
     'sparclite86x', 'sparclet', 'tsc701', 'v9', 'ultrasparc',
     'ultrasparc3', 'niagara', 'niagara2', 'niagara3', 'niagara4',
     'niagara7' and 'm8'.

     Native Solaris and GNU/Linux toolchains also support the value
     'native', which selects the best architecture option for the host
     processor.  '-mcpu=native' has no effect if GCC does not recognize
     the processor.

     Default instruction scheduling parameters are used for values that
     select an architecture and not an implementation.  These are 'v7',
     'v8', 'sparclite', 'sparclet', 'v9'.

     Here is a list of each supported architecture and their supported
     implementations.

     v7
          cypress, leon3v7

     v8
          supersparc, hypersparc, leon, leon3

     sparclite
          f930, f934, sparclite86x

     sparclet
          tsc701

     v9
          ultrasparc, ultrasparc3, niagara, niagara2, niagara3,
          niagara4, niagara7, m8

     By default (unless configured otherwise), GCC generates code for
     the V7 variant of the SPARC architecture.  With '-mcpu=cypress',
     the compiler additionally optimizes it for the Cypress CY7C602
     chip, as used in the SPARCStation/SPARCServer 3xx series.  This is
     also appropriate for the older SPARCStation 1, 2, IPX etc.

     With '-mcpu=v8', GCC generates code for the V8 variant of the SPARC
     architecture.  The only difference from V7 code is that the
     compiler emits the integer multiply and integer divide instructions
     which exist in SPARC-V8 but not in SPARC-V7.  With
     '-mcpu=supersparc', the compiler additionally optimizes it for the
     SuperSPARC chip, as used in the SPARCStation 10, 1000 and 2000
     series.

     With '-mcpu=sparclite', GCC generates code for the SPARClite
     variant of the SPARC architecture.  This adds the integer multiply,
     integer divide step and scan ('ffs') instructions which exist in
     SPARClite but not in SPARC-V7.  With '-mcpu=f930', the compiler
     additionally optimizes it for the Fujitsu MB86930 chip, which is
     the original SPARClite, with no FPU.  With '-mcpu=f934', the
     compiler additionally optimizes it for the Fujitsu MB86934 chip,
     which is the more recent SPARClite with FPU.

     With '-mcpu=sparclet', GCC generates code for the SPARClet variant
     of the SPARC architecture.  This adds the integer multiply,
     multiply/accumulate, integer divide step and scan ('ffs')
     instructions which exist in SPARClet but not in SPARC-V7.  With
     '-mcpu=tsc701', the compiler additionally optimizes it for the
     TEMIC SPARClet chip.

     With '-mcpu=v9', GCC generates code for the V9 variant of the SPARC
     architecture.  This adds 64-bit integer and floating-point move
     instructions, 3 additional floating-point condition code registers
     and conditional move instructions.  With '-mcpu=ultrasparc', the
     compiler additionally optimizes it for the Sun UltraSPARC I/II/IIi
     chips.  With '-mcpu=ultrasparc3', the compiler additionally
     optimizes it for the Sun UltraSPARC III/III+/IIIi/IIIi+/IV/IV+
     chips.  With '-mcpu=niagara', the compiler additionally optimizes
     it for Sun UltraSPARC T1 chips.  With '-mcpu=niagara2', the
     compiler additionally optimizes it for Sun UltraSPARC T2 chips.
     With '-mcpu=niagara3', the compiler additionally optimizes it for
     Sun UltraSPARC T3 chips.  With '-mcpu=niagara4', the compiler
     additionally optimizes it for Sun UltraSPARC T4 chips.  With
     '-mcpu=niagara7', the compiler additionally optimizes it for Oracle
     SPARC M7 chips.  With '-mcpu=m8', the compiler additionally
     optimizes it for Oracle M8 chips.

'-mtune=CPU_TYPE'
     Set the instruction scheduling parameters for machine type
     CPU_TYPE, but do not set the instruction set or register set that
     the option '-mcpu=CPU_TYPE' does.

     The same values for '-mcpu=CPU_TYPE' can be used for
     '-mtune=CPU_TYPE', but the only useful values are those that select
     a particular CPU implementation.  Those are 'cypress',
     'supersparc', 'hypersparc', 'leon', 'leon3', 'leon3v7', 'f930',
     'f934', 'sparclite86x', 'tsc701', 'ultrasparc', 'ultrasparc3',
     'niagara', 'niagara2', 'niagara3', 'niagara4', 'niagara7' and 'm8'.
     With native Solaris and GNU/Linux toolchains, 'native' can also be
     used.

'-mv8plus'
'-mno-v8plus'
     With '-mv8plus', GCC generates code for the SPARC-V8+ ABI.  The
     difference from the V8 ABI is that the global and out registers are
     considered 64 bits wide.  This is enabled by default on Solaris in
     32-bit mode for all SPARC-V9 processors.

'-mvis'
'-mno-vis'
     With '-mvis', GCC generates code that takes advantage of the
     UltraSPARC Visual Instruction Set extensions.  The default is
     '-mno-vis'.

'-mvis2'
'-mno-vis2'
     With '-mvis2', GCC generates code that takes advantage of version
     2.0 of the UltraSPARC Visual Instruction Set extensions.  The
     default is '-mvis2' when targeting a cpu that supports such
     instructions, such as UltraSPARC-III and later.  Setting '-mvis2'
     also sets '-mvis'.

'-mvis3'
'-mno-vis3'
     With '-mvis3', GCC generates code that takes advantage of version
     3.0 of the UltraSPARC Visual Instruction Set extensions.  The
     default is '-mvis3' when targeting a cpu that supports such
     instructions, such as niagara-3 and later.  Setting '-mvis3' also
     sets '-mvis2' and '-mvis'.

'-mvis4'
'-mno-vis4'
     With '-mvis4', GCC generates code that takes advantage of version
     4.0 of the UltraSPARC Visual Instruction Set extensions.  The
     default is '-mvis4' when targeting a cpu that supports such
     instructions, such as niagara-7 and later.  Setting '-mvis4' also
     sets '-mvis3', '-mvis2' and '-mvis'.

'-mvis4b'
'-mno-vis4b'
     With '-mvis4b', GCC generates code that takes advantage of version
     4.0 of the UltraSPARC Visual Instruction Set extensions, plus the
     additional VIS instructions introduced in the Oracle SPARC
     Architecture 2017.  The default is '-mvis4b' when targeting a cpu
     that supports such instructions, such as m8 and later.  Setting
     '-mvis4b' also sets '-mvis4', '-mvis3', '-mvis2' and '-mvis'.

'-mcbcond'
'-mno-cbcond'
     With '-mcbcond', GCC generates code that takes advantage of the
     UltraSPARC Compare-and-Branch-on-Condition instructions.  The
     default is '-mcbcond' when targeting a CPU that supports such
     instructions, such as Niagara-4 and later.

'-mfmaf'
'-mno-fmaf'
     With '-mfmaf', GCC generates code that takes advantage of the
     UltraSPARC Fused Multiply-Add Floating-point instructions.  The
     default is '-mfmaf' when targeting a CPU that supports such
     instructions, such as Niagara-3 and later.

'-mfsmuld'
'-mno-fsmuld'
     With '-mfsmuld', GCC generates code that takes advantage of the
     Floating-point Multiply Single to Double (FsMULd) instruction.  The
     default is '-mfsmuld' when targeting a CPU supporting the
     architecture versions V8 or V9 with FPU except '-mcpu=leon'.

'-mpopc'
'-mno-popc'
     With '-mpopc', GCC generates code that takes advantage of the
     UltraSPARC Population Count instruction.  The default is '-mpopc'
     when targeting a CPU that supports such an instruction, such as
     Niagara-2 and later.

'-msubxc'
'-mno-subxc'
     With '-msubxc', GCC generates code that takes advantage of the
     UltraSPARC Subtract-Extended-with-Carry instruction.  The default
     is '-msubxc' when targeting a CPU that supports such an
     instruction, such as Niagara-7 and later.

'-mfix-at697f'
     Enable the documented workaround for the single erratum of the
     Atmel AT697F processor (which corresponds to erratum #13 of the
     AT697E processor).

'-mfix-ut699'
     Enable the documented workarounds for the floating-point errata and
     the data cache nullify errata of the UT699 processor.

'-mfix-ut700'
     Enable the documented workaround for the back-to-back store errata
     of the UT699E/UT700 processor.

'-mfix-gr712rc'
     Enable the documented workaround for the back-to-back store errata
     of the GR712RC processor.

 These '-m' options are supported in addition to the above on SPARC-V9
processors in 64-bit environments:

'-m32'
'-m64'
     Generate code for a 32-bit or 64-bit environment.  The 32-bit
     environment sets int, long and pointer to 32 bits.  The 64-bit
     environment sets int to 32 bits and long and pointer to 64 bits.

'-mcmodel=WHICH'
     Set the code model to one of

     'medlow'
          The Medium/Low code model: 64-bit addresses, programs must be
          linked in the low 32 bits of memory.  Programs can be
          statically or dynamically linked.

     'medmid'
          The Medium/Middle code model: 64-bit addresses, programs must
          be linked in the low 44 bits of memory, the text and data
          segments must be less than 2GB in size and the data segment
          must be located within 2GB of the text segment.

     'medany'
          The Medium/Anywhere code model: 64-bit addresses, programs may
          be linked anywhere in memory, the text and data segments must
          be less than 2GB in size and the data segment must be located
          within 2GB of the text segment.

     'embmedany'
          The Medium/Anywhere code model for embedded systems: 64-bit
          addresses, the text and data segments must be less than 2GB in
          size, both starting anywhere in memory (determined at link
          time).  The global register %g4 points to the base of the data
          segment.  Programs are statically linked and PIC is not
          supported.

'-mmemory-model=MEM-MODEL'
     Set the memory model in force on the processor to one of

     'default'
          The default memory model for the processor and operating
          system.

     'rmo'
          Relaxed Memory Order

     'pso'
          Partial Store Order

     'tso'
          Total Store Order

     'sc'
          Sequential Consistency

     These memory models are formally defined in Appendix D of the
     SPARC-V9 architecture manual, as set in the processor's 'PSTATE.MM'
     field.

'-mstack-bias'
'-mno-stack-bias'
     With '-mstack-bias', GCC assumes that the stack pointer, and frame
     pointer if present, are offset by -2047 which must be added back
     when making stack frame references.  This is the default in 64-bit
     mode.  Otherwise, assume no such offset is present.

File: gcc.info,  Node: SPU Options,  Next: System V Options,  Prev: SPARC Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.49 SPU Options
-------------------

These '-m' options are supported on the SPU:

'-mwarn-reloc'
'-merror-reloc'

     The loader for SPU does not handle dynamic relocations.  By
     default, GCC gives an error when it generates code that requires a
     dynamic relocation.  '-mno-error-reloc' disables the error,
     '-mwarn-reloc' generates a warning instead.

'-msafe-dma'
'-munsafe-dma'

     Instructions that initiate or test completion of DMA must not be
     reordered with respect to loads and stores of the memory that is
     being accessed.  With '-munsafe-dma' you must use the 'volatile'
     keyword to protect memory accesses, but that can lead to
     inefficient code in places where the memory is known to not change.
     Rather than mark the memory as volatile, you can use '-msafe-dma'
     to tell the compiler to treat the DMA instructions as potentially
     affecting all memory.

'-mbranch-hints'

     By default, GCC generates a branch hint instruction to avoid
     pipeline stalls for always-taken or probably-taken branches.  A
     hint is not generated closer than 8 instructions away from its
     branch.  There is little reason to disable them, except for
     debugging purposes, or to make an object a little bit smaller.

'-msmall-mem'
'-mlarge-mem'

     By default, GCC generates code assuming that addresses are never
     larger than 18 bits.  With '-mlarge-mem' code is generated that
     assumes a full 32-bit address.

'-mstdmain'

     By default, GCC links against startup code that assumes the
     SPU-style main function interface (which has an unconventional
     parameter list).  With '-mstdmain', GCC links your program against
     startup code that assumes a C99-style interface to 'main',
     including a local copy of 'argv' strings.

'-mfixed-range=REGISTER-RANGE'
     Generate code treating the given register range as fixed registers.
     A fixed register is one that the register allocator cannot use.
     This is useful when compiling kernel code.  A register range is
     specified as two registers separated by a dash.  Multiple register
     ranges can be specified separated by a comma.

'-mea32'
'-mea64'
     Compile code assuming that pointers to the PPU address space
     accessed via the '__ea' named address space qualifier are either 32
     or 64 bits wide.  The default is 32 bits.  As this is an
     ABI-changing option, all object code in an executable must be
     compiled with the same setting.

'-maddress-space-conversion'
'-mno-address-space-conversion'
     Allow/disallow treating the '__ea' address space as superset of the
     generic address space.  This enables explicit type casts between
     '__ea' and generic pointer as well as implicit conversions of
     generic pointers to '__ea' pointers.  The default is to allow
     address space pointer conversions.

'-mcache-size=CACHE-SIZE'
     This option controls the version of libgcc that the compiler links
     to an executable and selects a software-managed cache for accessing
     variables in the '__ea' address space with a particular cache size.
     Possible options for CACHE-SIZE are '8', '16', '32', '64' and
     '128'.  The default cache size is 64KB.

'-matomic-updates'
'-mno-atomic-updates'
     This option controls the version of libgcc that the compiler links
     to an executable and selects whether atomic updates to the
     software-managed cache of PPU-side variables are used.  If you use
     atomic updates, changes to a PPU variable from SPU code using the
     '__ea' named address space qualifier do not interfere with changes
     to other PPU variables residing in the same cache line from PPU
     code.  If you do not use atomic updates, such interference may
     occur; however, writing back cache lines is more efficient.  The
     default behavior is to use atomic updates.

'-mdual-nops'
'-mdual-nops=N'
     By default, GCC inserts NOPs to increase dual issue when it expects
     it to increase performance.  N can be a value from 0 to 10.  A
     smaller N inserts fewer NOPs.  10 is the default, 0 is the same as
     '-mno-dual-nops'.  Disabled with '-Os'.

'-mhint-max-nops=N'
     Maximum number of NOPs to insert for a branch hint.  A branch hint
     must be at least 8 instructions away from the branch it is
     affecting.  GCC inserts up to N NOPs to enforce this, otherwise it
     does not generate the branch hint.

'-mhint-max-distance=N'
     The encoding of the branch hint instruction limits the hint to be
     within 256 instructions of the branch it is affecting.  By default,
     GCC makes sure it is within 125.

'-msafe-hints'
     Work around a hardware bug that causes the SPU to stall
     indefinitely.  By default, GCC inserts the 'hbrp' instruction to
     make sure this stall won't happen.

File: gcc.info,  Node: System V Options,  Next: TILE-Gx Options,  Prev: SPU Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.50 Options for System V
----------------------------

These additional options are available on System V Release 4 for
compatibility with other compilers on those systems:

'-G'
     Create a shared object.  It is recommended that '-symbolic' or
     '-shared' be used instead.

'-Qy'
     Identify the versions of each tool used by the compiler, in a
     '.ident' assembler directive in the output.

'-Qn'
     Refrain from adding '.ident' directives to the output file (this is
     the default).

'-YP,DIRS'
     Search the directories DIRS, and no others, for libraries specified
     with '-l'.

'-Ym,DIR'
     Look in the directory DIR to find the M4 preprocessor.  The
     assembler uses this option.

File: gcc.info,  Node: TILE-Gx Options,  Next: TILEPro Options,  Prev: System V Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.51 TILE-Gx Options
-----------------------

These '-m' options are supported on the TILE-Gx:

'-mcmodel=small'
     Generate code for the small model.  The distance for direct calls
     is limited to 500M in either direction.  PC-relative addresses are
     32 bits.  Absolute addresses support the full address range.

'-mcmodel=large'
     Generate code for the large model.  There is no limitation on call
     distance, pc-relative addresses, or absolute addresses.

'-mcpu=NAME'
     Selects the type of CPU to be targeted.  Currently the only
     supported type is 'tilegx'.

'-m32'
'-m64'
     Generate code for a 32-bit or 64-bit environment.  The 32-bit
     environment sets int, long, and pointer to 32 bits.  The 64-bit
     environment sets int to 32 bits and long and pointer to 64 bits.

'-mbig-endian'
'-mlittle-endian'
     Generate code in big/little endian mode, respectively.

File: gcc.info,  Node: TILEPro Options,  Next: V850 Options,  Prev: TILE-Gx Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.52 TILEPro Options
-----------------------

These '-m' options are supported on the TILEPro:

'-mcpu=NAME'
     Selects the type of CPU to be targeted.  Currently the only
     supported type is 'tilepro'.

'-m32'
     Generate code for a 32-bit environment, which sets int, long, and
     pointer to 32 bits.  This is the only supported behavior so the
     flag is essentially ignored.

File: gcc.info,  Node: V850 Options,  Next: VAX Options,  Prev: TILEPro Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.53 V850 Options
--------------------

These '-m' options are defined for V850 implementations:

'-mlong-calls'
'-mno-long-calls'
     Treat all calls as being far away (near).  If calls are assumed to
     be far away, the compiler always loads the function's address into
     a register, and calls indirect through the pointer.

'-mno-ep'
'-mep'
     Do not optimize (do optimize) basic blocks that use the same index
     pointer 4 or more times to copy pointer into the 'ep' register, and
     use the shorter 'sld' and 'sst' instructions.  The '-mep' option is
     on by default if you optimize.

'-mno-prolog-function'
'-mprolog-function'
     Do not use (do use) external functions to save and restore
     registers at the prologue and epilogue of a function.  The external
     functions are slower, but use less code space if more than one
     function saves the same number of registers.  The
     '-mprolog-function' option is on by default if you optimize.

'-mspace'
     Try to make the code as small as possible.  At present, this just
     turns on the '-mep' and '-mprolog-function' options.

'-mtda=N'
     Put static or global variables whose size is N bytes or less into
     the tiny data area that register 'ep' points to.  The tiny data
     area can hold up to 256 bytes in total (128 bytes for byte
     references).

'-msda=N'
     Put static or global variables whose size is N bytes or less into
     the small data area that register 'gp' points to.  The small data
     area can hold up to 64 kilobytes.

'-mzda=N'
     Put static or global variables whose size is N bytes or less into
     the first 32 kilobytes of memory.

'-mv850'
     Specify that the target processor is the V850.

'-mv850e3v5'
     Specify that the target processor is the V850E3V5.  The
     preprocessor constant '__v850e3v5__' is defined if this option is
     used.

'-mv850e2v4'
     Specify that the target processor is the V850E3V5.  This is an
     alias for the '-mv850e3v5' option.

'-mv850e2v3'
     Specify that the target processor is the V850E2V3.  The
     preprocessor constant '__v850e2v3__' is defined if this option is
     used.

'-mv850e2'
     Specify that the target processor is the V850E2.  The preprocessor
     constant '__v850e2__' is defined if this option is used.

'-mv850e1'
     Specify that the target processor is the V850E1.  The preprocessor
     constants '__v850e1__' and '__v850e__' are defined if this option
     is used.

'-mv850es'
     Specify that the target processor is the V850ES. This is an alias
     for the '-mv850e1' option.

'-mv850e'
     Specify that the target processor is the V850E.  The preprocessor
     constant '__v850e__' is defined if this option is used.

     If neither '-mv850' nor '-mv850e' nor '-mv850e1' nor '-mv850e2' nor
     '-mv850e2v3' nor '-mv850e3v5' are defined then a default target
     processor is chosen and the relevant '__v850*__' preprocessor
     constant is defined.

     The preprocessor constants '__v850' and '__v851__' are always
     defined, regardless of which processor variant is the target.

'-mdisable-callt'
'-mno-disable-callt'
     This option suppresses generation of the 'CALLT' instruction for
     the v850e, v850e1, v850e2, v850e2v3 and v850e3v5 flavors of the
     v850 architecture.

     This option is enabled by default when the RH850 ABI is in use (see
     '-mrh850-abi'), and disabled by default when the GCC ABI is in use.
     If 'CALLT' instructions are being generated then the C preprocessor
     symbol '__V850_CALLT__' is defined.

'-mrelax'
'-mno-relax'
     Pass on (or do not pass on) the '-mrelax' command-line option to
     the assembler.

'-mlong-jumps'
'-mno-long-jumps'
     Disable (or re-enable) the generation of PC-relative jump
     instructions.

'-msoft-float'
'-mhard-float'
     Disable (or re-enable) the generation of hardware floating point
     instructions.  This option is only significant when the target
     architecture is 'V850E2V3' or higher.  If hardware floating point
     instructions are being generated then the C preprocessor symbol
     '__FPU_OK__' is defined, otherwise the symbol '__NO_FPU__' is
     defined.

'-mloop'
     Enables the use of the e3v5 LOOP instruction.  The use of this
     instruction is not enabled by default when the e3v5 architecture is
     selected because its use is still experimental.

'-mrh850-abi'
'-mghs'
     Enables support for the RH850 version of the V850 ABI. This is the
     default.  With this version of the ABI the following rules apply:

        * Integer sized structures and unions are returned via a memory
          pointer rather than a register.

        * Large structures and unions (more than 8 bytes in size) are
          passed by value.

        * Functions are aligned to 16-bit boundaries.

        * The '-m8byte-align' command-line option is supported.

        * The '-mdisable-callt' command-line option is enabled by
          default.  The '-mno-disable-callt' command-line option is not
          supported.

     When this version of the ABI is enabled the C preprocessor symbol
     '__V850_RH850_ABI__' is defined.

'-mgcc-abi'
     Enables support for the old GCC version of the V850 ABI. With this
     version of the ABI the following rules apply:

        * Integer sized structures and unions are returned in register
          'r10'.

        * Large structures and unions (more than 8 bytes in size) are
          passed by reference.

        * Functions are aligned to 32-bit boundaries, unless optimizing
          for size.

        * The '-m8byte-align' command-line option is not supported.

        * The '-mdisable-callt' command-line option is supported but not
          enabled by default.

     When this version of the ABI is enabled the C preprocessor symbol
     '__V850_GCC_ABI__' is defined.

'-m8byte-align'
'-mno-8byte-align'
     Enables support for 'double' and 'long long' types to be aligned on
     8-byte boundaries.  The default is to restrict the alignment of all
     objects to at most 4-bytes.  When '-m8byte-align' is in effect the
     C preprocessor symbol '__V850_8BYTE_ALIGN__' is defined.

'-mbig-switch'
     Generate code suitable for big switch tables.  Use this option only
     if the assembler/linker complain about out of range branches within
     a switch table.

'-mapp-regs'
     This option causes r2 and r5 to be used in the code generated by
     the compiler.  This setting is the default.

'-mno-app-regs'
     This option causes r2 and r5 to be treated as fixed registers.

File: gcc.info,  Node: VAX Options,  Next: Visium Options,  Prev: V850 Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.54 VAX Options
-------------------

These '-m' options are defined for the VAX:

'-munix'
     Do not output certain jump instructions ('aobleq' and so on) that
     the Unix assembler for the VAX cannot handle across long ranges.

'-mgnu'
     Do output those jump instructions, on the assumption that the GNU
     assembler is being used.

'-mg'
     Output code for G-format floating-point numbers instead of
     D-format.

File: gcc.info,  Node: Visium Options,  Next: VMS Options,  Prev: VAX Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.55 Visium Options
----------------------

'-mdebug'
     A program which performs file I/O and is destined to run on an MCM
     target should be linked with this option.  It causes the libraries
     libc.a and libdebug.a to be linked.  The program should be run on
     the target under the control of the GDB remote debugging stub.

'-msim'
     A program which performs file I/O and is destined to run on the
     simulator should be linked with option.  This causes libraries
     libc.a and libsim.a to be linked.

'-mfpu'
'-mhard-float'
     Generate code containing floating-point instructions.  This is the
     default.

'-mno-fpu'
'-msoft-float'
     Generate code containing library calls for floating-point.

     '-msoft-float' changes the calling convention in the output file;
     therefore, it is only useful if you compile _all_ of a program with
     this option.  In particular, you need to compile 'libgcc.a', the
     library that comes with GCC, with '-msoft-float' in order for this
     to work.

'-mcpu=CPU_TYPE'
     Set the instruction set, register set, and instruction scheduling
     parameters for machine type CPU_TYPE.  Supported values for
     CPU_TYPE are 'mcm', 'gr5' and 'gr6'.

     'mcm' is a synonym of 'gr5' present for backward compatibility.

     By default (unless configured otherwise), GCC generates code for
     the GR5 variant of the Visium architecture.

     With '-mcpu=gr6', GCC generates code for the GR6 variant of the
     Visium architecture.  The only difference from GR5 code is that the
     compiler will generate block move instructions.

'-mtune=CPU_TYPE'
     Set the instruction scheduling parameters for machine type
     CPU_TYPE, but do not set the instruction set or register set that
     the option '-mcpu=CPU_TYPE' would.

'-msv-mode'
     Generate code for the supervisor mode, where there are no
     restrictions on the access to general registers.  This is the
     default.

'-muser-mode'
     Generate code for the user mode, where the access to some general
     registers is forbidden: on the GR5, registers r24 to r31 cannot be
     accessed in this mode; on the GR6, only registers r29 to r31 are
     affected.

File: gcc.info,  Node: VMS Options,  Next: VxWorks Options,  Prev: Visium Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.56 VMS Options
-------------------

These '-m' options are defined for the VMS implementations:

'-mvms-return-codes'
     Return VMS condition codes from 'main'.  The default is to return
     POSIX-style condition (e.g. error) codes.

'-mdebug-main=PREFIX'
     Flag the first routine whose name starts with PREFIX as the main
     routine for the debugger.

'-mmalloc64'
     Default to 64-bit memory allocation routines.

'-mpointer-size=SIZE'
     Set the default size of pointers.  Possible options for SIZE are
     '32' or 'short' for 32 bit pointers, '64' or 'long' for 64 bit
     pointers, and 'no' for supporting only 32 bit pointers.  The later
     option disables 'pragma pointer_size'.

File: gcc.info,  Node: VxWorks Options,  Next: x86 Options,  Prev: VMS Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.57 VxWorks Options
-----------------------

The options in this section are defined for all VxWorks targets.
Options specific to the target hardware are listed with the other
options for that target.

'-mrtp'
     GCC can generate code for both VxWorks kernels and real time
     processes (RTPs).  This option switches from the former to the
     latter.  It also defines the preprocessor macro '__RTP__'.

'-non-static'
     Link an RTP executable against shared libraries rather than static
     libraries.  The options '-static' and '-shared' can also be used
     for RTPs (*note Link Options::); '-static' is the default.

'-Bstatic'
'-Bdynamic'
     These options are passed down to the linker.  They are defined for
     compatibility with Diab.

'-Xbind-lazy'
     Enable lazy binding of function calls.  This option is equivalent
     to '-Wl,-z,now' and is defined for compatibility with Diab.

'-Xbind-now'
     Disable lazy binding of function calls.  This option is the default
     and is defined for compatibility with Diab.

File: gcc.info,  Node: x86 Options,  Next: x86 Windows Options,  Prev: VxWorks Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.58 x86 Options
-------------------

These '-m' options are defined for the x86 family of computers.

'-march=CPU-TYPE'
     Generate instructions for the machine type CPU-TYPE.  In contrast
     to '-mtune=CPU-TYPE', which merely tunes the generated code for the
     specified CPU-TYPE, '-march=CPU-TYPE' allows GCC to generate code
     that may not run at all on processors other than the one indicated.
     Specifying '-march=CPU-TYPE' implies '-mtune=CPU-TYPE'.

     The choices for CPU-TYPE are:

     'native'
          This selects the CPU to generate code for at compilation time
          by determining the processor type of the compiling machine.
          Using '-march=native' enables all instruction subsets
          supported by the local machine (hence the result might not run
          on different machines).  Using '-mtune=native' produces code
          optimized for the local machine under the constraints of the
          selected instruction set.

     'x86-64'
          A generic CPU with 64-bit extensions.

     'i386'
          Original Intel i386 CPU.

     'i486'
          Intel i486 CPU.  (No scheduling is implemented for this chip.)

     'i586'
     'pentium'
          Intel Pentium CPU with no MMX support.

     'lakemont'
          Intel Lakemont MCU, based on Intel Pentium CPU.

     'pentium-mmx'
          Intel Pentium MMX CPU, based on Pentium core with MMX
          instruction set support.

     'pentiumpro'
          Intel Pentium Pro CPU.

     'i686'
          When used with '-march', the Pentium Pro instruction set is
          used, so the code runs on all i686 family chips.  When used
          with '-mtune', it has the same meaning as 'generic'.

     'pentium2'
          Intel Pentium II CPU, based on Pentium Pro core with MMX
          instruction set support.

     'pentium3'
     'pentium3m'
          Intel Pentium III CPU, based on Pentium Pro core with MMX and
          SSE instruction set support.

     'pentium-m'
          Intel Pentium M; low-power version of Intel Pentium III CPU
          with MMX, SSE and SSE2 instruction set support.  Used by
          Centrino notebooks.

     'pentium4'
     'pentium4m'
          Intel Pentium 4 CPU with MMX, SSE and SSE2 instruction set
          support.

     'prescott'
          Improved version of Intel Pentium 4 CPU with MMX, SSE, SSE2
          and SSE3 instruction set support.

     'nocona'
          Improved version of Intel Pentium 4 CPU with 64-bit
          extensions, MMX, SSE, SSE2 and SSE3 instruction set support.

     'core2'
          Intel Core 2 CPU with 64-bit extensions, MMX, SSE, SSE2, SSE3
          and SSSE3 instruction set support.

     'nehalem'
          Intel Nehalem CPU with 64-bit extensions, MMX, SSE, SSE2,
          SSE3, SSSE3, SSE4.1, SSE4.2 and POPCNT instruction set
          support.

     'westmere'
          Intel Westmere CPU with 64-bit extensions, MMX, SSE, SSE2,
          SSE3, SSSE3, SSE4.1, SSE4.2, POPCNT, AES and PCLMUL
          instruction set support.

     'sandybridge'
          Intel Sandy Bridge CPU with 64-bit extensions, MMX, SSE, SSE2,
          SSE3, SSSE3, SSE4.1, SSE4.2, POPCNT, AVX, AES and PCLMUL
          instruction set support.

     'ivybridge'
          Intel Ivy Bridge CPU with 64-bit extensions, MMX, SSE, SSE2,
          SSE3, SSSE3, SSE4.1, SSE4.2, POPCNT, AVX, AES, PCLMUL,
          FSGSBASE, RDRND and F16C instruction set support.

     'haswell'
          Intel Haswell CPU with 64-bit extensions, MOVBE, MMX, SSE,
          SSE2, SSE3, SSSE3, SSE4.1, SSE4.2, POPCNT, AVX, AVX2, AES,
          PCLMUL, FSGSBASE, RDRND, FMA, BMI, BMI2 and F16C instruction
          set support.

     'broadwell'
          Intel Broadwell CPU with 64-bit extensions, MOVBE, MMX, SSE,
          SSE2, SSE3, SSSE3, SSE4.1, SSE4.2, POPCNT, AVX, AVX2, AES,
          PCLMUL, FSGSBASE, RDRND, FMA, BMI, BMI2, F16C, RDSEED, ADCX
          and PREFETCHW instruction set support.

     'skylake'
          Intel Skylake CPU with 64-bit extensions, MOVBE, MMX, SSE,
          SSE2, SSE3, SSSE3, SSE4.1, SSE4.2, POPCNT, AVX, AVX2, AES,
          PCLMUL, FSGSBASE, RDRND, FMA, BMI, BMI2, F16C, RDSEED, ADCX,
          PREFETCHW, CLFLUSHOPT, XSAVEC and XSAVES instruction set
          support.

     'bonnell'
          Intel Bonnell CPU with 64-bit extensions, MOVBE, MMX, SSE,
          SSE2, SSE3 and SSSE3 instruction set support.

     'silvermont'
          Intel Silvermont CPU with 64-bit extensions, MOVBE, MMX, SSE,
          SSE2, SSE3, SSSE3, SSE4.1, SSE4.2, POPCNT, AES, PCLMUL and
          RDRND instruction set support.

     'goldmont'
          Intel Goldmont CPU with 64-bit extensions, MOVBE, MMX, SSE,
          SSE2, SSE3, SSSE3, SSE4.1, SSE4.2, POPCNT, AES, PCLMUL, RDRND,
          XSAVE, XSAVEOPT and FSGSBASE instruction set support.

     'goldmont-plus'
          Intel Goldmont Plus CPU with 64-bit extensions, MOVBE, MMX,
          SSE, SSE2, SSE3, SSSE3, SSE4.1, SSE4.2, POPCNT, AES, PCLMUL,
          RDRND, XSAVE, XSAVEOPT, FSGSBASE, PTWRITE, RDPID, SGX and UMIP
          instruction set support.

     'tremont'
          Intel Tremont CPU with 64-bit extensions, MOVBE, MMX, SSE,
          SSE2, SSE3, SSSE3, SSE4.1, SSE4.2, POPCNT, AES, PCLMUL, RDRND,
          XSAVE, XSAVEOPT, FSGSBASE, PTWRITE, RDPID, SGX, UMIP,
          GFNI-SSE, CLWB and ENCLV instruction set support.

     'knl'
          Intel Knight's Landing CPU with 64-bit extensions, MOVBE, MMX,
          SSE, SSE2, SSE3, SSSE3, SSE4.1, SSE4.2, POPCNT, AVX, AVX2,
          AES, PCLMUL, FSGSBASE, RDRND, FMA, BMI, BMI2, F16C, RDSEED,
          ADCX, PREFETCHW, AVX512F, AVX512PF, AVX512ER and AVX512CD
          instruction set support.

     'knm'
          Intel Knights Mill CPU with 64-bit extensions, MOVBE, MMX,
          SSE, SSE2, SSE3, SSSE3, SSE4.1, SSE4.2, POPCNT, AVX, AVX2,
          AES, PCLMUL, FSGSBASE, RDRND, FMA, BMI, BMI2, F16C, RDSEED,
          ADCX, PREFETCHW, AVX512F, AVX512PF, AVX512ER, AVX512CD,
          AVX5124VNNIW, AVX5124FMAPS and AVX512VPOPCNTDQ instruction set
          support.

     'skylake-avx512'
          Intel Skylake Server CPU with 64-bit extensions, MOVBE, MMX,
          SSE, SSE2, SSE3, SSSE3, SSE4.1, SSE4.2, POPCNT, PKU, AVX,
          AVX2, AES, PCLMUL, FSGSBASE, RDRND, FMA, BMI, BMI2, F16C,
          RDSEED, ADCX, PREFETCHW, CLFLUSHOPT, XSAVEC, XSAVES, AVX512F,
          CLWB, AVX512VL, AVX512BW, AVX512DQ and AVX512CD instruction
          set support.

     'cannonlake'
          Intel Cannonlake Server CPU with 64-bit extensions, MOVBE,
          MMX, SSE, SSE2, SSE3, SSSE3, SSE4.1, SSE4.2, POPCNT, PKU, AVX,
          AVX2, AES, PCLMUL, FSGSBASE, RDRND, FMA, BMI, BMI2, F16C,
          RDSEED, ADCX, PREFETCHW, CLFLUSHOPT, XSAVEC, XSAVES, AVX512F,
          AVX512VL, AVX512BW, AVX512DQ, AVX512CD, AVX512VBMI,
          AVX512IFMA, SHA and UMIP instruction set support.

     'icelake-client'
          Intel Icelake Client CPU with 64-bit extensions, MOVBE, MMX,
          SSE, SSE2, SSE3, SSSE3, SSE4.1, SSE4.2, POPCNT, PKU, AVX,
          AVX2, AES, PCLMUL, FSGSBASE, RDRND, FMA, BMI, BMI2, F16C,
          RDSEED, ADCX, PREFETCHW, CLFLUSHOPT, XSAVEC, XSAVES, AVX512F,
          AVX512VL, AVX512BW, AVX512DQ, AVX512CD, AVX512VBMI,
          AVX512IFMA, SHA, CLWB, UMIP, RDPID, GFNI, AVX512VBMI2,
          AVX512VPOPCNTDQ, AVX512BITALG, AVX512VNNI, VPCLMULQDQ, VAES
          instruction set support.

     'icelake-server'
          Intel Icelake Server CPU with 64-bit extensions, MOVBE, MMX,
          SSE, SSE2, SSE3, SSSE3, SSE4.1, SSE4.2, POPCNT, PKU, AVX,
          AVX2, AES, PCLMUL, FSGSBASE, RDRND, FMA, BMI, BMI2, F16C,
          RDSEED, ADCX, PREFETCHW, CLFLUSHOPT, XSAVEC, XSAVES, AVX512F,
          AVX512VL, AVX512BW, AVX512DQ, AVX512CD, AVX512VBMI,
          AVX512IFMA, SHA, CLWB, UMIP, RDPID, GFNI, AVX512VBMI2,
          AVX512VPOPCNTDQ, AVX512BITALG, AVX512VNNI, VPCLMULQDQ, VAES,
          PCONFIG and WBNOINVD instruction set support.

     'cascadelake'
          Intel Cascadelake CPU with 64-bit extensions, MOVBE, MMX, SSE,
          SSE2, SSE3, SSSE3, SSE4.1, SSE4.2, POPCNT, PKU, AVX, AVX2,
          AES, PCLMUL, FSGSBASE, RDRND, FMA, BMI, BMI2, F16C, RDSEED,
          ADCX, PREFETCHW, CLFLUSHOPT, XSAVEC, XSAVES, AVX512F, CLWB,
          AVX512VL, AVX512BW, AVX512DQ, AVX512CD and AVX512VNNI
          instruction set support.

     'k6'
          AMD K6 CPU with MMX instruction set support.

     'k6-2'
     'k6-3'
          Improved versions of AMD K6 CPU with MMX and 3DNow!
          instruction set support.

     'athlon'
     'athlon-tbird'
          AMD Athlon CPU with MMX, 3dNOW!, enhanced 3DNow! and SSE
          prefetch instructions support.

     'athlon-4'
     'athlon-xp'
     'athlon-mp'
          Improved AMD Athlon CPU with MMX, 3DNow!, enhanced 3DNow! and
          full SSE instruction set support.

     'k8'
     'opteron'
     'athlon64'
     'athlon-fx'
          Processors based on the AMD K8 core with x86-64 instruction
          set support, including the AMD Opteron, Athlon 64, and Athlon
          64 FX processors.  (This supersets MMX, SSE, SSE2, 3DNow!,
          enhanced 3DNow! and 64-bit instruction set extensions.)

     'k8-sse3'
     'opteron-sse3'
     'athlon64-sse3'
          Improved versions of AMD K8 cores with SSE3 instruction set
          support.

     'amdfam10'
     'barcelona'
          CPUs based on AMD Family 10h cores with x86-64 instruction set
          support.  (This supersets MMX, SSE, SSE2, SSE3, SSE4A, 3DNow!,
          enhanced 3DNow!, ABM and 64-bit instruction set extensions.)

     'bdver1'
          CPUs based on AMD Family 15h cores with x86-64 instruction set
          support.  (This supersets FMA4, AVX, XOP, LWP, AES, PCL_MUL,
          CX16, MMX, SSE, SSE2, SSE3, SSE4A, SSSE3, SSE4.1, SSE4.2, ABM
          and 64-bit instruction set extensions.)
     'bdver2'
          AMD Family 15h core based CPUs with x86-64 instruction set
          support.  (This supersets BMI, TBM, F16C, FMA, FMA4, AVX, XOP,
          LWP, AES, PCL_MUL, CX16, MMX, SSE, SSE2, SSE3, SSE4A, SSSE3,
          SSE4.1, SSE4.2, ABM and 64-bit instruction set extensions.)
     'bdver3'
          AMD Family 15h core based CPUs with x86-64 instruction set
          support.  (This supersets BMI, TBM, F16C, FMA, FMA4, FSGSBASE,
          AVX, XOP, LWP, AES, PCL_MUL, CX16, MMX, SSE, SSE2, SSE3,
          SSE4A, SSSE3, SSE4.1, SSE4.2, ABM and 64-bit instruction set
          extensions.
     'bdver4'
          AMD Family 15h core based CPUs with x86-64 instruction set
          support.  (This supersets BMI, BMI2, TBM, F16C, FMA, FMA4,
          FSGSBASE, AVX, AVX2, XOP, LWP, AES, PCL_MUL, CX16, MOVBE, MMX,
          SSE, SSE2, SSE3, SSE4A, SSSE3, SSE4.1, SSE4.2, ABM and 64-bit
          instruction set extensions.

     'znver1'
          AMD Family 17h core based CPUs with x86-64 instruction set
          support.  (This supersets BMI, BMI2, F16C, FMA, FSGSBASE, AVX,
          AVX2, ADCX, RDSEED, MWAITX, SHA, CLZERO, AES, PCL_MUL, CX16,
          MOVBE, MMX, SSE, SSE2, SSE3, SSE4A, SSSE3, SSE4.1, SSE4.2,
          ABM, XSAVEC, XSAVES, CLFLUSHOPT, POPCNT, and 64-bit
          instruction set extensions.
     'znver2'
          AMD Family 17h core based CPUs with x86-64 instruction set
          support.  (This supersets BMI, BMI2, ,CLWB, F16C, FMA,
          FSGSBASE, AVX, AVX2, ADCX, RDSEED, MWAITX, SHA, CLZERO, AES,
          PCL_MUL, CX16, MOVBE, MMX, SSE, SSE2, SSE3, SSE4A, SSSE3,
          SSE4.1, SSE4.2, ABM, XSAVEC, XSAVES, CLFLUSHOPT, POPCNT, and
          64-bit instruction set extensions.)

     'btver1'
          CPUs based on AMD Family 14h cores with x86-64 instruction set
          support.  (This supersets MMX, SSE, SSE2, SSE3, SSSE3, SSE4A,
          CX16, ABM and 64-bit instruction set extensions.)

     'btver2'
          CPUs based on AMD Family 16h cores with x86-64 instruction set
          support.  This includes MOVBE, F16C, BMI, AVX, PCL_MUL, AES,
          SSE4.2, SSE4.1, CX16, ABM, SSE4A, SSSE3, SSE3, SSE2, SSE, MMX
          and 64-bit instruction set extensions.

     'winchip-c6'
          IDT WinChip C6 CPU, dealt in same way as i486 with additional
          MMX instruction set support.

     'winchip2'
          IDT WinChip 2 CPU, dealt in same way as i486 with additional
          MMX and 3DNow! instruction set support.

     'c3'
          VIA C3 CPU with MMX and 3DNow! instruction set support.  (No
          scheduling is implemented for this chip.)

     'c3-2'
          VIA C3-2 (Nehemiah/C5XL) CPU with MMX and SSE instruction set
          support.  (No scheduling is implemented for this chip.)

     'c7'
          VIA C7 (Esther) CPU with MMX, SSE, SSE2 and SSE3 instruction
          set support.  (No scheduling is implemented for this chip.)

     'samuel-2'
          VIA Eden Samuel 2 CPU with MMX and 3DNow! instruction set
          support.  (No scheduling is implemented for this chip.)

     'nehemiah'
          VIA Eden Nehemiah CPU with MMX and SSE instruction set
          support.  (No scheduling is implemented for this chip.)

     'esther'
          VIA Eden Esther CPU with MMX, SSE, SSE2 and SSE3 instruction
          set support.  (No scheduling is implemented for this chip.)

     'eden-x2'
          VIA Eden X2 CPU with x86-64, MMX, SSE, SSE2 and SSE3
          instruction set support.  (No scheduling is implemented for
          this chip.)

     'eden-x4'
          VIA Eden X4 CPU with x86-64, MMX, SSE, SSE2, SSE3, SSSE3,
          SSE4.1, SSE4.2, AVX and AVX2 instruction set support.  (No
          scheduling is implemented for this chip.)

     'nano'
          Generic VIA Nano CPU with x86-64, MMX, SSE, SSE2, SSE3 and
          SSSE3 instruction set support.  (No scheduling is implemented
          for this chip.)

     'nano-1000'
          VIA Nano 1xxx CPU with x86-64, MMX, SSE, SSE2, SSE3 and SSSE3
          instruction set support.  (No scheduling is implemented for
          this chip.)

     'nano-2000'
          VIA Nano 2xxx CPU with x86-64, MMX, SSE, SSE2, SSE3 and SSSE3
          instruction set support.  (No scheduling is implemented for
          this chip.)

     'nano-3000'
          VIA Nano 3xxx CPU with x86-64, MMX, SSE, SSE2, SSE3, SSSE3 and
          SSE4.1 instruction set support.  (No scheduling is implemented
          for this chip.)

     'nano-x2'
          VIA Nano Dual Core CPU with x86-64, MMX, SSE, SSE2, SSE3,
          SSSE3 and SSE4.1 instruction set support.  (No scheduling is
          implemented for this chip.)

     'nano-x4'
          VIA Nano Quad Core CPU with x86-64, MMX, SSE, SSE2, SSE3,
          SSSE3 and SSE4.1 instruction set support.  (No scheduling is
          implemented for this chip.)

     'geode'
          AMD Geode embedded processor with MMX and 3DNow! instruction
          set support.

'-mtune=CPU-TYPE'
     Tune to CPU-TYPE everything applicable about the generated code,
     except for the ABI and the set of available instructions.  While
     picking a specific CPU-TYPE schedules things appropriately for that
     particular chip, the compiler does not generate any code that
     cannot run on the default machine type unless you use a
     '-march=CPU-TYPE' option.  For example, if GCC is configured for
     i686-pc-linux-gnu then '-mtune=pentium4' generates code that is
     tuned for Pentium 4 but still runs on i686 machines.

     The choices for CPU-TYPE are the same as for '-march'.  In
     addition, '-mtune' supports 2 extra choices for CPU-TYPE:

     'generic'
          Produce code optimized for the most common IA32/AMD64/EM64T
          processors.  If you know the CPU on which your code will run,
          then you should use the corresponding '-mtune' or '-march'
          option instead of '-mtune=generic'.  But, if you do not know
          exactly what CPU users of your application will have, then you
          should use this option.

          As new processors are deployed in the marketplace, the
          behavior of this option will change.  Therefore, if you
          upgrade to a newer version of GCC, code generation controlled
          by this option will change to reflect the processors that are
          most common at the time that version of GCC is released.

          There is no '-march=generic' option because '-march' indicates
          the instruction set the compiler can use, and there is no
          generic instruction set applicable to all processors.  In
          contrast, '-mtune' indicates the processor (or, in this case,
          collection of processors) for which the code is optimized.

     'intel'
          Produce code optimized for the most current Intel processors,
          which are Haswell and Silvermont for this version of GCC. If
          you know the CPU on which your code will run, then you should
          use the corresponding '-mtune' or '-march' option instead of
          '-mtune=intel'.  But, if you want your application performs
          better on both Haswell and Silvermont, then you should use
          this option.

          As new Intel processors are deployed in the marketplace, the
          behavior of this option will change.  Therefore, if you
          upgrade to a newer version of GCC, code generation controlled
          by this option will change to reflect the most current Intel
          processors at the time that version of GCC is released.

          There is no '-march=intel' option because '-march' indicates
          the instruction set the compiler can use, and there is no
          common instruction set applicable to all processors.  In
          contrast, '-mtune' indicates the processor (or, in this case,
          collection of processors) for which the code is optimized.

'-mcpu=CPU-TYPE'
     A deprecated synonym for '-mtune'.

'-mfpmath=UNIT'
     Generate floating-point arithmetic for selected unit UNIT.  The
     choices for UNIT are:

     '387'
          Use the standard 387 floating-point coprocessor present on the
          majority of chips and emulated otherwise.  Code compiled with
          this option runs almost everywhere.  The temporary results are
          computed in 80-bit precision instead of the precision
          specified by the type, resulting in slightly different results
          compared to most of other chips.  See '-ffloat-store' for more
          detailed description.

          This is the default choice for non-Darwin x86-32 targets.

     'sse'
          Use scalar floating-point instructions present in the SSE
          instruction set.  This instruction set is supported by Pentium
          III and newer chips, and in the AMD line by Athlon-4, Athlon
          XP and Athlon MP chips.  The earlier version of the SSE
          instruction set supports only single-precision arithmetic,
          thus the double and extended-precision arithmetic are still
          done using 387.  A later version, present only in Pentium 4
          and AMD x86-64 chips, supports double-precision arithmetic
          too.

          For the x86-32 compiler, you must use '-march=CPU-TYPE',
          '-msse' or '-msse2' switches to enable SSE extensions and make
          this option effective.  For the x86-64 compiler, these
          extensions are enabled by default.

          The resulting code should be considerably faster in the
          majority of cases and avoid the numerical instability problems
          of 387 code, but may break some existing code that expects
          temporaries to be 80 bits.

          This is the default choice for the x86-64 compiler, Darwin
          x86-32 targets, and the default choice for x86-32 targets with
          the SSE2 instruction set when '-ffast-math' is enabled.

     'sse,387'
     'sse+387'
     'both'
          Attempt to utilize both instruction sets at once.  This
          effectively doubles the amount of available registers, and on
          chips with separate execution units for 387 and SSE the
          execution resources too.  Use this option with care, as it is
          still experimental, because the GCC register allocator does
          not model separate functional units well, resulting in
          unstable performance.

'-masm=DIALECT'
     Output assembly instructions using selected DIALECT.  Also affects
     which dialect is used for basic 'asm' (*note Basic Asm::) and
     extended 'asm' (*note Extended Asm::).  Supported choices (in
     dialect order) are 'att' or 'intel'.  The default is 'att'.  Darwin
     does not support 'intel'.

'-mieee-fp'
'-mno-ieee-fp'
     Control whether or not the compiler uses IEEE floating-point
     comparisons.  These correctly handle the case where the result of a
     comparison is unordered.

'-m80387'
'-mhard-float'
     Generate output containing 80387 instructions for floating point.

'-mno-80387'
'-msoft-float'
     Generate output containing library calls for floating point.

     *Warning:* the requisite libraries are not part of GCC.  Normally
     the facilities of the machine's usual C compiler are used, but this
     cannot be done directly in cross-compilation.  You must make your
     own arrangements to provide suitable library functions for
     cross-compilation.

     On machines where a function returns floating-point results in the
     80387 register stack, some floating-point opcodes may be emitted
     even if '-msoft-float' is used.

'-mno-fp-ret-in-387'
     Do not use the FPU registers for return values of functions.

     The usual calling convention has functions return values of types
     'float' and 'double' in an FPU register, even if there is no FPU.
     The idea is that the operating system should emulate an FPU.

     The option '-mno-fp-ret-in-387' causes such values to be returned
     in ordinary CPU registers instead.

'-mno-fancy-math-387'
     Some 387 emulators do not support the 'sin', 'cos' and 'sqrt'
     instructions for the 387.  Specify this option to avoid generating
     those instructions.  This option is overridden when '-march'
     indicates that the target CPU always has an FPU and so the
     instruction does not need emulation.  These instructions are not
     generated unless you also use the '-funsafe-math-optimizations'
     switch.

'-malign-double'
'-mno-align-double'
     Control whether GCC aligns 'double', 'long double', and 'long long'
     variables on a two-word boundary or a one-word boundary.  Aligning
     'double' variables on a two-word boundary produces code that runs
     somewhat faster on a Pentium at the expense of more memory.

     On x86-64, '-malign-double' is enabled by default.

     *Warning:* if you use the '-malign-double' switch, structures
     containing the above types are aligned differently than the
     published application binary interface specifications for the
     x86-32 and are not binary compatible with structures in code
     compiled without that switch.

'-m96bit-long-double'
'-m128bit-long-double'
     These switches control the size of 'long double' type.  The x86-32
     application binary interface specifies the size to be 96 bits, so
     '-m96bit-long-double' is the default in 32-bit mode.

     Modern architectures (Pentium and newer) prefer 'long double' to be
     aligned to an 8- or 16-byte boundary.  In arrays or structures
     conforming to the ABI, this is not possible.  So specifying
     '-m128bit-long-double' aligns 'long double' to a 16-byte boundary
     by padding the 'long double' with an additional 32-bit zero.

     In the x86-64 compiler, '-m128bit-long-double' is the default
     choice as its ABI specifies that 'long double' is aligned on
     16-byte boundary.

     Notice that neither of these options enable any extra precision
     over the x87 standard of 80 bits for a 'long double'.

     *Warning:* if you override the default value for your target ABI,
     this changes the size of structures and arrays containing 'long
     double' variables, as well as modifying the function calling
     convention for functions taking 'long double'.  Hence they are not
     binary-compatible with code compiled without that switch.

'-mlong-double-64'
'-mlong-double-80'
'-mlong-double-128'
     These switches control the size of 'long double' type.  A size of
     64 bits makes the 'long double' type equivalent to the 'double'
     type.  This is the default for 32-bit Bionic C library.  A size of
     128 bits makes the 'long double' type equivalent to the
     '__float128' type.  This is the default for 64-bit Bionic C
     library.

     *Warning:* if you override the default value for your target ABI,
     this changes the size of structures and arrays containing 'long
     double' variables, as well as modifying the function calling
     convention for functions taking 'long double'.  Hence they are not
     binary-compatible with code compiled without that switch.

'-malign-data=TYPE'
     Control how GCC aligns variables.  Supported values for TYPE are
     'compat' uses increased alignment value compatible uses GCC 4.8 and
     earlier, 'abi' uses alignment value as specified by the psABI, and
     'cacheline' uses increased alignment value to match the cache line
     size.  'compat' is the default.

'-mlarge-data-threshold=THRESHOLD'
     When '-mcmodel=medium' is specified, data objects larger than
     THRESHOLD are placed in the large data section.  This value must be
     the same across all objects linked into the binary, and defaults to
     65535.

'-mrtd'
     Use a different function-calling convention, in which functions
     that take a fixed number of arguments return with the 'ret NUM'
     instruction, which pops their arguments while returning.  This
     saves one instruction in the caller since there is no need to pop
     the arguments there.

     You can specify that an individual function is called with this
     calling sequence with the function attribute 'stdcall'.  You can
     also override the '-mrtd' option by using the function attribute
     'cdecl'.  *Note Function Attributes::.

     *Warning:* this calling convention is incompatible with the one
     normally used on Unix, so you cannot use it if you need to call
     libraries compiled with the Unix compiler.

     Also, you must provide function prototypes for all functions that
     take variable numbers of arguments (including 'printf'); otherwise
     incorrect code is generated for calls to those functions.

     In addition, seriously incorrect code results if you call a
     function with too many arguments.  (Normally, extra arguments are
     harmlessly ignored.)

'-mregparm=NUM'
     Control how many registers are used to pass integer arguments.  By
     default, no registers are used to pass arguments, and at most 3
     registers can be used.  You can control this behavior for a
     specific function by using the function attribute 'regparm'.  *Note
     Function Attributes::.

     *Warning:* if you use this switch, and NUM is nonzero, then you
     must build all modules with the same value, including any
     libraries.  This includes the system libraries and startup modules.

'-msseregparm'
     Use SSE register passing conventions for float and double arguments
     and return values.  You can control this behavior for a specific
     function by using the function attribute 'sseregparm'.  *Note
     Function Attributes::.

     *Warning:* if you use this switch then you must build all modules
     with the same value, including any libraries.  This includes the
     system libraries and startup modules.

'-mvect8-ret-in-mem'
     Return 8-byte vectors in memory instead of MMX registers.  This is
     the default on Solaris 8 and 9 and VxWorks to match the ABI of the
     Sun Studio compilers until version 12.  Later compiler versions
     (starting with Studio 12 Update 1) follow the ABI used by other x86
     targets, which is the default on Solaris 10 and later.  _Only_ use
     this option if you need to remain compatible with existing code
     produced by those previous compiler versions or older versions of
     GCC.

'-mpc32'
'-mpc64'
'-mpc80'

     Set 80387 floating-point precision to 32, 64 or 80 bits.  When
     '-mpc32' is specified, the significands of results of
     floating-point operations are rounded to 24 bits (single
     precision); '-mpc64' rounds the significands of results of
     floating-point operations to 53 bits (double precision) and
     '-mpc80' rounds the significands of results of floating-point
     operations to 64 bits (extended double precision), which is the
     default.  When this option is used, floating-point operations in
     higher precisions are not available to the programmer without
     setting the FPU control word explicitly.

     Setting the rounding of floating-point operations to less than the
     default 80 bits can speed some programs by 2% or more.  Note that
     some mathematical libraries assume that extended-precision (80-bit)
     floating-point operations are enabled by default; routines in such
     libraries could suffer significant loss of accuracy, typically
     through so-called "catastrophic cancellation", when this option is
     used to set the precision to less than extended precision.

'-mstackrealign'
     Realign the stack at entry.  On the x86, the '-mstackrealign'
     option generates an alternate prologue and epilogue that realigns
     the run-time stack if necessary.  This supports mixing legacy codes
     that keep 4-byte stack alignment with modern codes that keep
     16-byte stack alignment for SSE compatibility.  See also the
     attribute 'force_align_arg_pointer', applicable to individual
     functions.

'-mpreferred-stack-boundary=NUM'
     Attempt to keep the stack boundary aligned to a 2 raised to NUM
     byte boundary.  If '-mpreferred-stack-boundary' is not specified,
     the default is 4 (16 bytes or 128 bits).

     *Warning:* When generating code for the x86-64 architecture with
     SSE extensions disabled, '-mpreferred-stack-boundary=3' can be used
     to keep the stack boundary aligned to 8 byte boundary.  Since
     x86-64 ABI require 16 byte stack alignment, this is ABI
     incompatible and intended to be used in controlled environment
     where stack space is important limitation.  This option leads to
     wrong code when functions compiled with 16 byte stack alignment
     (such as functions from a standard library) are called with
     misaligned stack.  In this case, SSE instructions may lead to
     misaligned memory access traps.  In addition, variable arguments
     are handled incorrectly for 16 byte aligned objects (including x87
     long double and __int128), leading to wrong results.  You must
     build all modules with '-mpreferred-stack-boundary=3', including
     any libraries.  This includes the system libraries and startup
     modules.

'-mincoming-stack-boundary=NUM'
     Assume the incoming stack is aligned to a 2 raised to NUM byte
     boundary.  If '-mincoming-stack-boundary' is not specified, the one
     specified by '-mpreferred-stack-boundary' is used.

     On Pentium and Pentium Pro, 'double' and 'long double' values
     should be aligned to an 8-byte boundary (see '-malign-double') or
     suffer significant run time performance penalties.  On Pentium III,
     the Streaming SIMD Extension (SSE) data type '__m128' may not work
     properly if it is not 16-byte aligned.

     To ensure proper alignment of this values on the stack, the stack
     boundary must be as aligned as that required by any value stored on
     the stack.  Further, every function must be generated such that it
     keeps the stack aligned.  Thus calling a function compiled with a
     higher preferred stack boundary from a function compiled with a
     lower preferred stack boundary most likely misaligns the stack.  It
     is recommended that libraries that use callbacks always use the
     default setting.

     This extra alignment does consume extra stack space, and generally
     increases code size.  Code that is sensitive to stack space usage,
     such as embedded systems and operating system kernels, may want to
     reduce the preferred alignment to '-mpreferred-stack-boundary=2'.

'-mmmx'
'-msse'
'-msse2'
'-msse3'
'-mssse3'
'-msse4'
'-msse4a'
'-msse4.1'
'-msse4.2'
'-mavx'
'-mavx2'
'-mavx512f'
'-mavx512pf'
'-mavx512er'
'-mavx512cd'
'-mavx512vl'
'-mavx512bw'
'-mavx512dq'
'-mavx512ifma'
'-mavx512vbmi'
'-msha'
'-maes'
'-mpclmul'
'-mclflushopt'
'-mclwb'
'-mfsgsbase'
'-mptwrite'
'-mrdrnd'
'-mf16c'
'-mfma'
'-mpconfig'
'-mwbnoinvd'
'-mfma4'
'-mprfchw'
'-mrdpid'
'-mprefetchwt1'
'-mrdseed'
'-msgx'
'-mxop'
'-mlwp'
'-m3dnow'
'-m3dnowa'
'-mpopcnt'
'-mabm'
'-madx'
'-mbmi'
'-mbmi2'
'-mlzcnt'
'-mfxsr'
'-mxsave'
'-mxsaveopt'
'-mxsavec'
'-mxsaves'
'-mrtm'
'-mhle'
'-mtbm'
'-mmwaitx'
'-mclzero'
'-mpku'
'-mavx512vbmi2'
'-mgfni'
'-mvaes'
'-mwaitpkg'
'-mvpclmulqdq'
'-mavx512bitalg'
'-mmovdiri'
'-mmovdir64b'
'-mavx512vpopcntdq'
'-mavx5124fmaps'
'-mavx512vnni'
'-mavx5124vnniw'
'-mcldemote'
     These switches enable the use of instructions in the MMX, SSE,
     SSE2, SSE3, SSSE3, SSE4, SSE4A, SSE4.1, SSE4.2, AVX, AVX2, AVX512F,
     AVX512PF, AVX512ER, AVX512CD, AVX512VL, AVX512BW, AVX512DQ,
     AVX512IFMA, AVX512VBMI, SHA, AES, PCLMUL, CLFLUSHOPT, CLWB,
     FSGSBASE, PTWRITE, RDRND, F16C, FMA, PCONFIG, WBNOINVD, FMA4,
     PREFETCHW, RDPID, PREFETCHWT1, RDSEED, SGX, XOP, LWP, 3DNow!,
     enhanced 3DNow!, POPCNT, ABM, ADX, BMI, BMI2, LZCNT, FXSR, XSAVE,
     XSAVEOPT, XSAVEC, XSAVES, RTM, HLE, TBM, MWAITX, CLZERO, PKU,
     AVX512VBMI2, GFNI, VAES, WAITPKG, VPCLMULQDQ, AVX512BITALG,
     MOVDIRI, MOVDIR64B, AVX512VPOPCNTDQ, AVX5124FMAPS, AVX512VNNI,
     AVX5124VNNIW, or CLDEMOTE extended instruction sets.  Each has a
     corresponding '-mno-' option to disable use of these instructions.

     These extensions are also available as built-in functions: see
     *note x86 Built-in Functions::, for details of the functions
     enabled and disabled by these switches.

     To generate SSE/SSE2 instructions automatically from floating-point
     code (as opposed to 387 instructions), see '-mfpmath=sse'.

     GCC depresses SSEx instructions when '-mavx' is used.  Instead, it
     generates new AVX instructions or AVX equivalence for all SSEx
     instructions when needed.

     These options enable GCC to use these extended instructions in
     generated code, even without '-mfpmath=sse'.  Applications that
     perform run-time CPU detection must compile separate files for each
     supported architecture, using the appropriate flags.  In
     particular, the file containing the CPU detection code should be
     compiled without these options.

'-mdump-tune-features'
     This option instructs GCC to dump the names of the x86 performance
     tuning features and default settings.  The names can be used in
     '-mtune-ctrl=FEATURE-LIST'.

'-mtune-ctrl=FEATURE-LIST'
     This option is used to do fine grain control of x86 code generation
     features.  FEATURE-LIST is a comma separated list of FEATURE names.
     See also '-mdump-tune-features'.  When specified, the FEATURE is
     turned on if it is not preceded with '^', otherwise, it is turned
     off.  '-mtune-ctrl=FEATURE-LIST' is intended to be used by GCC
     developers.  Using it may lead to code paths not covered by testing
     and can potentially result in compiler ICEs or runtime errors.

'-mno-default'
     This option instructs GCC to turn off all tunable features.  See
     also '-mtune-ctrl=FEATURE-LIST' and '-mdump-tune-features'.

'-mcld'
     This option instructs GCC to emit a 'cld' instruction in the
     prologue of functions that use string instructions.  String
     instructions depend on the DF flag to select between autoincrement
     or autodecrement mode.  While the ABI specifies the DF flag to be
     cleared on function entry, some operating systems violate this
     specification by not clearing the DF flag in their exception
     dispatchers.  The exception handler can be invoked with the DF flag
     set, which leads to wrong direction mode when string instructions
     are used.  This option can be enabled by default on 32-bit x86
     targets by configuring GCC with the '--enable-cld' configure
     option.  Generation of 'cld' instructions can be suppressed with
     the '-mno-cld' compiler option in this case.

'-mvzeroupper'
     This option instructs GCC to emit a 'vzeroupper' instruction before
     a transfer of control flow out of the function to minimize the AVX
     to SSE transition penalty as well as remove unnecessary 'zeroupper'
     intrinsics.

'-mprefer-avx128'
     This option instructs GCC to use 128-bit AVX instructions instead
     of 256-bit AVX instructions in the auto-vectorizer.

'-mprefer-vector-width=OPT'
     This option instructs GCC to use OPT-bit vector width in
     instructions instead of default on the selected platform.

     'none'
          No extra limitations applied to GCC other than defined by the
          selected platform.

     '128'
          Prefer 128-bit vector width for instructions.

     '256'
          Prefer 256-bit vector width for instructions.

     '512'
          Prefer 512-bit vector width for instructions.

'-mcx16'
     This option enables GCC to generate 'CMPXCHG16B' instructions in
     64-bit code to implement compare-and-exchange operations on 16-byte
     aligned 128-bit objects.  This is useful for atomic updates of data
     structures exceeding one machine word in size.  The compiler uses
     this instruction to implement *note __sync Builtins::.  However,
     for *note __atomic Builtins:: operating on 128-bit integers, a
     library call is always used.

'-msahf'
     This option enables generation of 'SAHF' instructions in 64-bit
     code.  Early Intel Pentium 4 CPUs with Intel 64 support, prior to
     the introduction of Pentium 4 G1 step in December 2005, lacked the
     'LAHF' and 'SAHF' instructions which are supported by AMD64.  These
     are load and store instructions, respectively, for certain status
     flags.  In 64-bit mode, the 'SAHF' instruction is used to optimize
     'fmod', 'drem', and 'remainder' built-in functions; see *note Other
     Builtins:: for details.

'-mmovbe'
     This option enables use of the 'movbe' instruction to implement
     '__builtin_bswap32' and '__builtin_bswap64'.

'-mshstk'
     The '-mshstk' option enables shadow stack built-in functions from
     x86 Control-flow Enforcement Technology (CET).

'-mcrc32'
     This option enables built-in functions '__builtin_ia32_crc32qi',
     '__builtin_ia32_crc32hi', '__builtin_ia32_crc32si' and
     '__builtin_ia32_crc32di' to generate the 'crc32' machine
     instruction.

'-mrecip'
     This option enables use of 'RCPSS' and 'RSQRTSS' instructions (and
     their vectorized variants 'RCPPS' and 'RSQRTPS') with an additional
     Newton-Raphson step to increase precision instead of 'DIVSS' and
     'SQRTSS' (and their vectorized variants) for single-precision
     floating-point arguments.  These instructions are generated only
     when '-funsafe-math-optimizations' is enabled together with
     '-ffinite-math-only' and '-fno-trapping-math'.  Note that while the
     throughput of the sequence is higher than the throughput of the
     non-reciprocal instruction, the precision of the sequence can be
     decreased by up to 2 ulp (i.e. the inverse of 1.0 equals
     0.99999994).

     Note that GCC implements '1.0f/sqrtf(X)' in terms of 'RSQRTSS' (or
     'RSQRTPS') already with '-ffast-math' (or the above option
     combination), and doesn't need '-mrecip'.

     Also note that GCC emits the above sequence with additional
     Newton-Raphson step for vectorized single-float division and
     vectorized 'sqrtf(X)' already with '-ffast-math' (or the above
     option combination), and doesn't need '-mrecip'.

'-mrecip=OPT'
     This option controls which reciprocal estimate instructions may be
     used.  OPT is a comma-separated list of options, which may be
     preceded by a '!' to invert the option:

     'all'
          Enable all estimate instructions.

     'default'
          Enable the default instructions, equivalent to '-mrecip'.

     'none'
          Disable all estimate instructions, equivalent to '-mno-recip'.

     'div'
          Enable the approximation for scalar division.

     'vec-div'
          Enable the approximation for vectorized division.

     'sqrt'
          Enable the approximation for scalar square root.

     'vec-sqrt'
          Enable the approximation for vectorized square root.

     So, for example, '-mrecip=all,!sqrt' enables all of the reciprocal
     approximations, except for square root.

'-mveclibabi=TYPE'
     Specifies the ABI type to use for vectorizing intrinsics using an
     external library.  Supported values for TYPE are 'svml' for the
     Intel short vector math library and 'acml' for the AMD math core
     library.  To use this option, both '-ftree-vectorize' and
     '-funsafe-math-optimizations' have to be enabled, and an SVML or
     ACML ABI-compatible library must be specified at link time.

     GCC currently emits calls to 'vmldExp2', 'vmldLn2', 'vmldLog102',
     'vmldPow2', 'vmldTanh2', 'vmldTan2', 'vmldAtan2', 'vmldAtanh2',
     'vmldCbrt2', 'vmldSinh2', 'vmldSin2', 'vmldAsinh2', 'vmldAsin2',
     'vmldCosh2', 'vmldCos2', 'vmldAcosh2', 'vmldAcos2', 'vmlsExp4',
     'vmlsLn4', 'vmlsLog104', 'vmlsPow4', 'vmlsTanh4', 'vmlsTan4',
     'vmlsAtan4', 'vmlsAtanh4', 'vmlsCbrt4', 'vmlsSinh4', 'vmlsSin4',
     'vmlsAsinh4', 'vmlsAsin4', 'vmlsCosh4', 'vmlsCos4', 'vmlsAcosh4'
     and 'vmlsAcos4' for corresponding function type when
     '-mveclibabi=svml' is used, and '__vrd2_sin', '__vrd2_cos',
     '__vrd2_exp', '__vrd2_log', '__vrd2_log2', '__vrd2_log10',
     '__vrs4_sinf', '__vrs4_cosf', '__vrs4_expf', '__vrs4_logf',
     '__vrs4_log2f', '__vrs4_log10f' and '__vrs4_powf' for the
     corresponding function type when '-mveclibabi=acml' is used.

'-mabi=NAME'
     Generate code for the specified calling convention.  Permissible
     values are 'sysv' for the ABI used on GNU/Linux and other systems,
     and 'ms' for the Microsoft ABI. The default is to use the Microsoft
     ABI when targeting Microsoft Windows and the SysV ABI on all other
     systems.  You can control this behavior for specific functions by
     using the function attributes 'ms_abi' and 'sysv_abi'.  *Note
     Function Attributes::.

'-mforce-indirect-call'
     Force all calls to functions to be indirect.  This is useful when
     using Intel Processor Trace where it generates more precise timing
     information for function calls.

'-mmanual-endbr'
     Insert ENDBR instruction at function entry only via the 'cf_check'
     function attribute.  This is useful when used with the option
     '-fcf-protection=branch' to control ENDBR insertion at the function
     entry.

'-mcall-ms2sysv-xlogues'
     Due to differences in 64-bit ABIs, any Microsoft ABI function that
     calls a System V ABI function must consider RSI, RDI and XMM6-15 as
     clobbered.  By default, the code for saving and restoring these
     registers is emitted inline, resulting in fairly lengthy prologues
     and epilogues.  Using '-mcall-ms2sysv-xlogues' emits prologues and
     epilogues that use stubs in the static portion of libgcc to perform
     these saves and restores, thus reducing function size at the cost
     of a few extra instructions.

'-mtls-dialect=TYPE'
     Generate code to access thread-local storage using the 'gnu' or
     'gnu2' conventions.  'gnu' is the conservative default; 'gnu2' is
     more efficient, but it may add compile- and run-time requirements
     that cannot be satisfied on all systems.

'-mpush-args'
'-mno-push-args'
     Use PUSH operations to store outgoing parameters.  This method is
     shorter and usually equally fast as method using SUB/MOV operations
     and is enabled by default.  In some cases disabling it may improve
     performance because of improved scheduling and reduced
     dependencies.

'-maccumulate-outgoing-args'
     If enabled, the maximum amount of space required for outgoing
     arguments is computed in the function prologue.  This is faster on
     most modern CPUs because of reduced dependencies, improved
     scheduling and reduced stack usage when the preferred stack
     boundary is not equal to 2.  The drawback is a notable increase in
     code size.  This switch implies '-mno-push-args'.

'-mthreads'
     Support thread-safe exception handling on MinGW. Programs that rely
     on thread-safe exception handling must compile and link all code
     with the '-mthreads' option.  When compiling, '-mthreads' defines
     '-D_MT'; when linking, it links in a special thread helper library
     '-lmingwthrd' which cleans up per-thread exception-handling data.

'-mms-bitfields'
'-mno-ms-bitfields'

     Enable/disable bit-field layout compatible with the native
     Microsoft Windows compiler.

     If 'packed' is used on a structure, or if bit-fields are used, it
     may be that the Microsoft ABI lays out the structure differently
     than the way GCC normally does.  Particularly when moving packed
     data between functions compiled with GCC and the native Microsoft
     compiler (either via function call or as data in a file), it may be
     necessary to access either format.

     This option is enabled by default for Microsoft Windows targets.
     This behavior can also be controlled locally by use of variable or
     type attributes.  For more information, see *note x86 Variable
     Attributes:: and *note x86 Type Attributes::.

     The Microsoft structure layout algorithm is fairly simple with the
     exception of the bit-field packing.  The padding and alignment of
     members of structures and whether a bit-field can straddle a
     storage-unit boundary are determine by these rules:

       1. Structure members are stored sequentially in the order in
          which they are declared: the first member has the lowest
          memory address and the last member the highest.

       2. Every data object has an alignment requirement.  The alignment
          requirement for all data except structures, unions, and arrays
          is either the size of the object or the current packing size
          (specified with either the 'aligned' attribute or the 'pack'
          pragma), whichever is less.  For structures, unions, and
          arrays, the alignment requirement is the largest alignment
          requirement of its members.  Every object is allocated an
          offset so that:

               offset % alignment_requirement == 0

       3. Adjacent bit-fields are packed into the same 1-, 2-, or 4-byte
          allocation unit if the integral types are the same size and if
          the next bit-field fits into the current allocation unit
          without crossing the boundary imposed by the common alignment
          requirements of the bit-fields.

     MSVC interprets zero-length bit-fields in the following ways:

       1. If a zero-length bit-field is inserted between two bit-fields
          that are normally coalesced, the bit-fields are not coalesced.

          For example:

               struct
                {
                  unsigned long bf_1 : 12;
                  unsigned long : 0;
                  unsigned long bf_2 : 12;
                } t1;

          The size of 't1' is 8 bytes with the zero-length bit-field.
          If the zero-length bit-field were removed, 't1''s size would
          be 4 bytes.

       2. If a zero-length bit-field is inserted after a bit-field,
          'foo', and the alignment of the zero-length bit-field is
          greater than the member that follows it, 'bar', 'bar' is
          aligned as the type of the zero-length bit-field.

          For example:

               struct
                {
                  char foo : 4;
                  short : 0;
                  char bar;
                } t2;

               struct
                {
                  char foo : 4;
                  short : 0;
                  double bar;
                } t3;

          For 't2', 'bar' is placed at offset 2, rather than offset 1.
          Accordingly, the size of 't2' is 4.  For 't3', the zero-length
          bit-field does not affect the alignment of 'bar' or, as a
          result, the size of the structure.

          Taking this into account, it is important to note the
          following:

            1. If a zero-length bit-field follows a normal bit-field,
               the type of the zero-length bit-field may affect the
               alignment of the structure as whole.  For example, 't2'
               has a size of 4 bytes, since the zero-length bit-field
               follows a normal bit-field, and is of type short.

            2. Even if a zero-length bit-field is not followed by a
               normal bit-field, it may still affect the alignment of
               the structure:

                    struct
                     {
                       char foo : 6;
                       long : 0;
                     } t4;

               Here, 't4' takes up 4 bytes.

       3. Zero-length bit-fields following non-bit-field members are
          ignored:

               struct
                {
                  char foo;
                  long : 0;
                  char bar;
                } t5;

          Here, 't5' takes up 2 bytes.

'-mno-align-stringops'
     Do not align the destination of inlined string operations.  This
     switch reduces code size and improves performance in case the
     destination is already aligned, but GCC doesn't know about it.

'-minline-all-stringops'
     By default GCC inlines string operations only when the destination
     is known to be aligned to least a 4-byte boundary.  This enables
     more inlining and increases code size, but may improve performance
     of code that depends on fast 'memcpy', 'strlen', and 'memset' for
     short lengths.

'-minline-stringops-dynamically'
     For string operations of unknown size, use run-time checks with
     inline code for small blocks and a library call for large blocks.

'-mstringop-strategy=ALG'
     Override the internal decision heuristic for the particular
     algorithm to use for inlining string operations.  The allowed
     values for ALG are:

     'rep_byte'
     'rep_4byte'
     'rep_8byte'
          Expand using i386 'rep' prefix of the specified size.

     'byte_loop'
     'loop'
     'unrolled_loop'
          Expand into an inline loop.

     'libcall'
          Always use a library call.

'-mmemcpy-strategy=STRATEGY'
     Override the internal decision heuristic to decide if
     '__builtin_memcpy' should be inlined and what inline algorithm to
     use when the expected size of the copy operation is known.
     STRATEGY is a comma-separated list of ALG:MAX_SIZE:DEST_ALIGN
     triplets.  ALG is specified in '-mstringop-strategy', MAX_SIZE
     specifies the max byte size with which inline algorithm ALG is
     allowed.  For the last triplet, the MAX_SIZE must be '-1'.  The
     MAX_SIZE of the triplets in the list must be specified in
     increasing order.  The minimal byte size for ALG is '0' for the
     first triplet and 'MAX_SIZE + 1' of the preceding range.

'-mmemset-strategy=STRATEGY'
     The option is similar to '-mmemcpy-strategy=' except that it is to
     control '__builtin_memset' expansion.

'-momit-leaf-frame-pointer'
     Don't keep the frame pointer in a register for leaf functions.
     This avoids the instructions to save, set up, and restore frame
     pointers and makes an extra register available in leaf functions.
     The option '-fomit-leaf-frame-pointer' removes the frame pointer
     for leaf functions, which might make debugging harder.

'-mtls-direct-seg-refs'
'-mno-tls-direct-seg-refs'
     Controls whether TLS variables may be accessed with offsets from
     the TLS segment register ('%gs' for 32-bit, '%fs' for 64-bit), or
     whether the thread base pointer must be added.  Whether or not this
     is valid depends on the operating system, and whether it maps the
     segment to cover the entire TLS area.

     For systems that use the GNU C Library, the default is on.

'-msse2avx'
'-mno-sse2avx'
     Specify that the assembler should encode SSE instructions with VEX
     prefix.  The option '-mavx' turns this on by default.

'-mfentry'
'-mno-fentry'
     If profiling is active ('-pg'), put the profiling counter call
     before the prologue.  Note: On x86 architectures the attribute
     'ms_hook_prologue' isn't possible at the moment for '-mfentry' and
     '-pg'.

'-mrecord-mcount'
'-mno-record-mcount'
     If profiling is active ('-pg'), generate a __mcount_loc section
     that contains pointers to each profiling call.  This is useful for
     automatically patching and out calls.

'-mnop-mcount'
'-mno-nop-mcount'
     If profiling is active ('-pg'), generate the calls to the profiling
     functions as NOPs.  This is useful when they should be patched in
     later dynamically.  This is likely only useful together with
     '-mrecord-mcount'.

'-minstrument-return=TYPE'
     Instrument function exit in -pg -mfentry instrumented functions
     with call to specified function.  This only instruments true
     returns ending with ret, but not sibling calls ending with jump.
     Valid types are NONE to not instrument, CALL to generate a call to
     __return__, or NOP5 to generate a 5 byte nop.

'-mrecord-return'
'-mno-record-return'
     Generate a __return_loc section pointing to all return
     instrumentation code.

'-mfentry-name=NAME'
     Set name of __fentry__ symbol called at function entry for -pg
     -mfentry functions.

'-mfentry-section=NAME'
     Set name of section to record -mrecord-mcount calls (default
     __mcount_loc).

'-mskip-rax-setup'
'-mno-skip-rax-setup'
     When generating code for the x86-64 architecture with SSE
     extensions disabled, '-mskip-rax-setup' can be used to skip setting
     up RAX register when there are no variable arguments passed in
     vector registers.

     *Warning:* Since RAX register is used to avoid unnecessarily saving
     vector registers on stack when passing variable arguments, the
     impacts of this option are callees may waste some stack space,
     misbehave or jump to a random location.  GCC 4.4 or newer don't
     have those issues, regardless the RAX register value.

'-m8bit-idiv'
'-mno-8bit-idiv'
     On some processors, like Intel Atom, 8-bit unsigned integer divide
     is much faster than 32-bit/64-bit integer divide.  This option
     generates a run-time check.  If both dividend and divisor are
     within range of 0 to 255, 8-bit unsigned integer divide is used
     instead of 32-bit/64-bit integer divide.

'-mavx256-split-unaligned-load'
'-mavx256-split-unaligned-store'
     Split 32-byte AVX unaligned load and store.

'-mstack-protector-guard=GUARD'
'-mstack-protector-guard-reg=REG'
'-mstack-protector-guard-offset=OFFSET'
     Generate stack protection code using canary at GUARD.  Supported
     locations are 'global' for global canary or 'tls' for per-thread
     canary in the TLS block (the default).  This option has effect only
     when '-fstack-protector' or '-fstack-protector-all' is specified.

     With the latter choice the options
     '-mstack-protector-guard-reg=REG' and
     '-mstack-protector-guard-offset=OFFSET' furthermore specify which
     segment register ('%fs' or '%gs') to use as base register for
     reading the canary, and from what offset from that base register.
     The default for those is as specified in the relevant ABI.

'-mgeneral-regs-only'
     Generate code that uses only the general-purpose registers.  This
     prevents the compiler from using floating-point, vector, mask and
     bound registers.

'-mindirect-branch=CHOICE'
     Convert indirect call and jump with CHOICE.  The default is 'keep',
     which keeps indirect call and jump unmodified.  'thunk' converts
     indirect call and jump to call and return thunk.  'thunk-inline'
     converts indirect call and jump to inlined call and return thunk.
     'thunk-extern' converts indirect call and jump to external call and
     return thunk provided in a separate object file.  You can control
     this behavior for a specific function by using the function
     attribute 'indirect_branch'.  *Note Function Attributes::.

     Note that '-mcmodel=large' is incompatible with
     '-mindirect-branch=thunk' and '-mindirect-branch=thunk-extern'
     since the thunk function may not be reachable in the large code
     model.

     Note that '-mindirect-branch=thunk-extern' is incompatible with
     '-fcf-protection=branch' since the external thunk cannot be
     modified to disable control-flow check.

'-mfunction-return=CHOICE'
     Convert function return with CHOICE.  The default is 'keep', which
     keeps function return unmodified.  'thunk' converts function return
     to call and return thunk.  'thunk-inline' converts function return
     to inlined call and return thunk.  'thunk-extern' converts function
     return to external call and return thunk provided in a separate
     object file.  You can control this behavior for a specific function
     by using the function attribute 'function_return'.  *Note Function
     Attributes::.

     Note that '-mcmodel=large' is incompatible with
     '-mfunction-return=thunk' and '-mfunction-return=thunk-extern'
     since the thunk function may not be reachable in the large code
     model.

'-mindirect-branch-register'
     Force indirect call and jump via register.

 These '-m' switches are supported in addition to the above on x86-64
processors in 64-bit environments.

'-m32'
'-m64'
'-mx32'
'-m16'
'-miamcu'
     Generate code for a 16-bit, 32-bit or 64-bit environment.  The
     '-m32' option sets 'int', 'long', and pointer types to 32 bits, and
     generates code that runs on any i386 system.

     The '-m64' option sets 'int' to 32 bits and 'long' and pointer
     types to 64 bits, and generates code for the x86-64 architecture.
     For Darwin only the '-m64' option also turns off the '-fno-pic' and
     '-mdynamic-no-pic' options.

     The '-mx32' option sets 'int', 'long', and pointer types to 32
     bits, and generates code for the x86-64 architecture.

     The '-m16' option is the same as '-m32', except for that it outputs
     the '.code16gcc' assembly directive at the beginning of the
     assembly output so that the binary can run in 16-bit mode.

     The '-miamcu' option generates code which conforms to Intel MCU
     psABI. It requires the '-m32' option to be turned on.

'-mno-red-zone'
     Do not use a so-called "red zone" for x86-64 code.  The red zone is
     mandated by the x86-64 ABI; it is a 128-byte area beyond the
     location of the stack pointer that is not modified by signal or
     interrupt handlers and therefore can be used for temporary data
     without adjusting the stack pointer.  The flag '-mno-red-zone'
     disables this red zone.

'-mcmodel=small'
     Generate code for the small code model: the program and its symbols
     must be linked in the lower 2 GB of the address space.  Pointers
     are 64 bits.  Programs can be statically or dynamically linked.
     This is the default code model.

'-mcmodel=kernel'
     Generate code for the kernel code model.  The kernel runs in the
     negative 2 GB of the address space.  This model has to be used for
     Linux kernel code.

'-mcmodel=medium'
     Generate code for the medium model: the program is linked in the
     lower 2 GB of the address space.  Small symbols are also placed
     there.  Symbols with sizes larger than '-mlarge-data-threshold' are
     put into large data or BSS sections and can be located above 2GB.
     Programs can be statically or dynamically linked.

'-mcmodel=large'
     Generate code for the large model.  This model makes no assumptions
     about addresses and sizes of sections.

'-maddress-mode=long'
     Generate code for long address mode.  This is only supported for
     64-bit and x32 environments.  It is the default address mode for
     64-bit environments.

'-maddress-mode=short'
     Generate code for short address mode.  This is only supported for
     32-bit and x32 environments.  It is the default address mode for
     32-bit and x32 environments.

File: gcc.info,  Node: x86 Windows Options,  Next: Xstormy16 Options,  Prev: x86 Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.59 x86 Windows Options
---------------------------

These additional options are available for Microsoft Windows targets:

'-mconsole'
     This option specifies that a console application is to be
     generated, by instructing the linker to set the PE header subsystem
     type required for console applications.  This option is available
     for Cygwin and MinGW targets and is enabled by default on those
     targets.

'-mdll'
     This option is available for Cygwin and MinGW targets.  It
     specifies that a DLL--a dynamic link library--is to be generated,
     enabling the selection of the required runtime startup object and
     entry point.

'-mnop-fun-dllimport'
     This option is available for Cygwin and MinGW targets.  It
     specifies that the 'dllimport' attribute should be ignored.

'-mthread'
     This option is available for MinGW targets.  It specifies that
     MinGW-specific thread support is to be used.

'-municode'
     This option is available for MinGW-w64 targets.  It causes the
     'UNICODE' preprocessor macro to be predefined, and chooses
     Unicode-capable runtime startup code.

'-mwin32'
     This option is available for Cygwin and MinGW targets.  It
     specifies that the typical Microsoft Windows predefined macros are
     to be set in the pre-processor, but does not influence the choice
     of runtime library/startup code.

'-mwindows'
     This option is available for Cygwin and MinGW targets.  It
     specifies that a GUI application is to be generated by instructing
     the linker to set the PE header subsystem type appropriately.

'-fno-set-stack-executable'
     This option is available for MinGW targets.  It specifies that the
     executable flag for the stack used by nested functions isn't set.
     This is necessary for binaries running in kernel mode of Microsoft
     Windows, as there the User32 API, which is used to set executable
     privileges, isn't available.

'-fwritable-relocated-rdata'
     This option is available for MinGW and Cygwin targets.  It
     specifies that relocated-data in read-only section is put into the
     '.data' section.  This is a necessary for older runtimes not
     supporting modification of '.rdata' sections for pseudo-relocation.

'-mpe-aligned-commons'
     This option is available for Cygwin and MinGW targets.  It
     specifies that the GNU extension to the PE file format that permits
     the correct alignment of COMMON variables should be used when
     generating code.  It is enabled by default if GCC detects that the
     target assembler found during configuration supports the feature.

 See also under *note x86 Options:: for standard options.

File: gcc.info,  Node: Xstormy16 Options,  Next: Xtensa Options,  Prev: x86 Windows Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.60 Xstormy16 Options
-------------------------

These options are defined for Xstormy16:

'-msim'
     Choose startup files and linker script suitable for the simulator.

File: gcc.info,  Node: Xtensa Options,  Next: zSeries Options,  Prev: Xstormy16 Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.61 Xtensa Options
----------------------

These options are supported for Xtensa targets:

'-mconst16'
'-mno-const16'
     Enable or disable use of 'CONST16' instructions for loading
     constant values.  The 'CONST16' instruction is currently not a
     standard option from Tensilica.  When enabled, 'CONST16'
     instructions are always used in place of the standard 'L32R'
     instructions.  The use of 'CONST16' is enabled by default only if
     the 'L32R' instruction is not available.

'-mfused-madd'
'-mno-fused-madd'
     Enable or disable use of fused multiply/add and multiply/subtract
     instructions in the floating-point option.  This has no effect if
     the floating-point option is not also enabled.  Disabling fused
     multiply/add and multiply/subtract instructions forces the compiler
     to use separate instructions for the multiply and add/subtract
     operations.  This may be desirable in some cases where strict IEEE
     754-compliant results are required: the fused multiply add/subtract
     instructions do not round the intermediate result, thereby
     producing results with _more_ bits of precision than specified by
     the IEEE standard.  Disabling fused multiply add/subtract
     instructions also ensures that the program output is not sensitive
     to the compiler's ability to combine multiply and add/subtract
     operations.

'-mserialize-volatile'
'-mno-serialize-volatile'
     When this option is enabled, GCC inserts 'MEMW' instructions before
     'volatile' memory references to guarantee sequential consistency.
     The default is '-mserialize-volatile'.  Use
     '-mno-serialize-volatile' to omit the 'MEMW' instructions.

'-mforce-no-pic'
     For targets, like GNU/Linux, where all user-mode Xtensa code must
     be position-independent code (PIC), this option disables PIC for
     compiling kernel code.

'-mtext-section-literals'
'-mno-text-section-literals'
     These options control the treatment of literal pools.  The default
     is '-mno-text-section-literals', which places literals in a
     separate section in the output file.  This allows the literal pool
     to be placed in a data RAM/ROM, and it also allows the linker to
     combine literal pools from separate object files to remove
     redundant literals and improve code size.  With
     '-mtext-section-literals', the literals are interspersed in the
     text section in order to keep them as close as possible to their
     references.  This may be necessary for large assembly files.
     Literals for each function are placed right before that function.

'-mauto-litpools'
'-mno-auto-litpools'
     These options control the treatment of literal pools.  The default
     is '-mno-auto-litpools', which places literals in a separate
     section in the output file unless '-mtext-section-literals' is
     used.  With '-mauto-litpools' the literals are interspersed in the
     text section by the assembler.  Compiler does not produce explicit
     '.literal' directives and loads literals into registers with 'MOVI'
     instructions instead of 'L32R' to let the assembler do relaxation
     and place literals as necessary.  This option allows assembler to
     create several literal pools per function and assemble very big
     functions, which may not be possible with
     '-mtext-section-literals'.

'-mtarget-align'
'-mno-target-align'
     When this option is enabled, GCC instructs the assembler to
     automatically align instructions to reduce branch penalties at the
     expense of some code density.  The assembler attempts to widen
     density instructions to align branch targets and the instructions
     following call instructions.  If there are not enough preceding
     safe density instructions to align a target, no widening is
     performed.  The default is '-mtarget-align'.  These options do not
     affect the treatment of auto-aligned instructions like 'LOOP',
     which the assembler always aligns, either by widening density
     instructions or by inserting NOP instructions.

'-mlongcalls'
'-mno-longcalls'
     When this option is enabled, GCC instructs the assembler to
     translate direct calls to indirect calls unless it can determine
     that the target of a direct call is in the range allowed by the
     call instruction.  This translation typically occurs for calls to
     functions in other source files.  Specifically, the assembler
     translates a direct 'CALL' instruction into an 'L32R' followed by a
     'CALLX' instruction.  The default is '-mno-longcalls'.  This option
     should be used in programs where the call target can potentially be
     out of range.  This option is implemented in the assembler, not the
     compiler, so the assembly code generated by GCC still shows direct
     call instructions--look at the disassembled object code to see the
     actual instructions.  Note that the assembler uses an indirect call
     for every cross-file call, not just those that really are out of
     range.

File: gcc.info,  Node: zSeries Options,  Prev: Xtensa Options,  Up: Submodel Options

3.18.62 zSeries Options
-----------------------

These are listed under *Note S/390 and zSeries Options::.

File: gcc.info,  Node: Spec Files,  Next: Environment Variables,  Prev: Submodel Options,  Up: Invoking GCC

