7.5 Where's the Template?
=========================

C++ templates were the first language feature to require more
intelligence from the environment than was traditionally found on a UNIX
system.  Somehow the compiler and linker have to make sure that each
template instance occurs exactly once in the executable if it is needed,
and not at all otherwise.  There are two basic approaches to this
problem, which are referred to as the Borland model and the Cfront
model.

Borland model
     Borland C++ solved the template instantiation problem by adding the
     code equivalent of common blocks to their linker; the compiler
     emits template instances in each translation unit that uses them,
     and the linker collapses them together.  The advantage of this
     model is that the linker only has to consider the object files
     themselves; there is no external complexity to worry about.  The
     disadvantage is that compilation time is increased because the
     template code is being compiled repeatedly.  Code written for this
     model tends to include definitions of all templates in the header
     file, since they must be seen to be instantiated.

Cfront model
     The AT&T C++ translator, Cfront, solved the template instantiation
     problem by creating the notion of a template repository, an
     automatically maintained place where template instances are stored.
     A more modern version of the repository works as follows: As
     individual object files are built, the compiler places any template
     definitions and instantiations encountered in the repository.  At
     link time, the link wrapper adds in the objects in the repository
     and compiles any needed instances that were not previously emitted.
     The advantages of this model are more optimal compilation speed and
     the ability to use the system linker; to implement the Borland
     model a compiler vendor also needs to replace the linker.  The
     disadvantages are vastly increased complexity, and thus potential
     for error; for some code this can be just as transparent, but in
     practice it can been very difficult to build multiple programs in
     one directory and one program in multiple directories.  Code
     written for this model tends to separate definitions of non-inline
     member templates into a separate file, which should be compiled
     separately.

 G++ implements the Borland model on targets where the linker supports
it, including ELF targets (such as GNU/Linux), Mac OS X and Microsoft
Windows.  Otherwise G++ implements neither automatic model.

 You have the following options for dealing with template
instantiations:

  1. Do nothing.  Code written for the Borland model works fine, but
     each translation unit contains instances of each of the templates
     it uses.  The duplicate instances will be discarded by the linker,
     but in a large program, this can lead to an unacceptable amount of
     code duplication in object files or shared libraries.

     Duplicate instances of a template can be avoided by defining an
     explicit instantiation in one object file, and preventing the
     compiler from doing implicit instantiations in any other object
     files by using an explicit instantiation declaration, using the
     'extern template' syntax:

          extern template int max (int, int);

     This syntax is defined in the C++ 2011 standard, but has been
     supported by G++ and other compilers since well before 2011.

     Explicit instantiations can be used for the largest or most
     frequently duplicated instances, without having to know exactly
     which other instances are used in the rest of the program.  You can
     scatter the explicit instantiations throughout your program,
     perhaps putting them in the translation units where the instances
     are used or the translation units that define the templates
     themselves; you can put all of the explicit instantiations you need
     into one big file; or you can create small files like

          #include "Foo.h"
          #include "Foo.cc"

          template class Foo<int>;
          template ostream& operator <<
                          (ostream&, const Foo<int>&);

     for each of the instances you need, and create a template
     instantiation library from those.

     This is the simplest option, but also offers flexibility and
     fine-grained control when necessary.  It is also the most portable
     alternative and programs using this approach will work with most
     modern compilers.

  2. Compile your template-using code with '-frepo'.  The compiler
     generates files with the extension '.rpo' listing all of the
     template instantiations used in the corresponding object files that
     could be instantiated there; the link wrapper, 'collect2', then
     updates the '.rpo' files to tell the compiler where to place those
     instantiations and rebuild any affected object files.  The
     link-time overhead is negligible after the first pass, as the
     compiler continues to place the instantiations in the same files.

     This can be a suitable option for application code written for the
     Borland model, as it usually just works.  Code written for the
     Cfront model needs to be modified so that the template definitions
     are available at one or more points of instantiation; usually this
     is as simple as adding '#include <tmethods.cc>' to the end of each
     template header.

     For library code, if you want the library to provide all of the
     template instantiations it needs, just try to link all of its
     object files together; the link will fail, but cause the
     instantiations to be generated as a side effect.  Be warned,
     however, that this may cause conflicts if multiple libraries try to
     provide the same instantiations.  For greater control, use explicit
     instantiation as described in the next option.

  3. Compile your code with '-fno-implicit-templates' to disable the
     implicit generation of template instances, and explicitly
     instantiate all the ones you use.  This approach requires more
     knowledge of exactly which instances you need than do the others,
     but it's less mysterious and allows greater control if you want to
     ensure that only the intended instances are used.

     If you are using Cfront-model code, you can probably get away with
     not using '-fno-implicit-templates' when compiling files that don't
     '#include' the member template definitions.

     If you use one big file to do the instantiations, you may want to
     compile it without '-fno-implicit-templates' so you get all of the
     instances required by your explicit instantiations (but not by any
     other files) without having to specify them as well.

     In addition to forward declaration of explicit instantiations (with
     'extern'), G++ has extended the template instantiation syntax to
     support instantiation of the compiler support data for a template
     class (i.e. the vtable) without instantiating any of its members
     (with 'inline'), and instantiation of only the static data members
     of a template class, without the support data or member functions
     (with 'static'):

          inline template class Foo<int>;
          static template class Foo<int>;

File: gcc.info,  Node: Bound member functions,  Next: C++ Attributes,  Prev: Template Instantiation,  Up: C++ Extensions

