TIME(3am)                                                                       GNU Awk Extension Modules                                                                      TIME(3am)

NAME
       time - time functions for gawk

SYNOPSIS
       @load "time"

       time = gettimeofday()
       ret = sleep(amount)

CAUTION
       This  extension is deprecated in favor of the timex extension in the gawkextlib project.  In the next major release of gawk, loading it will issue a warning.  It will be removed
       from the gawk distribution in the major release after the next one.

DESCRIPTION
       The time extension adds two functions named gettimeofday() and sleep(), as follows.

       gettimeofday()
              This function returns the number of seconds since the Epoch as a floating-point value. It should have subsecond precision.  It returns -1 upon error and sets ERRNO to in-
              dicate the problem.

       sleep(seconds)
              This  function  attempts to sleep for the given amount of seconds, which may include a fractional portion.  If seconds is negative, or the attempt to sleep fails, then it
              returns -1 and sets ERRNO.  Otherwise, the function should return 0 after sleeping for the indicated amount of time.

EXAMPLE
       @load "time"
       ...
       printf "It is now %g seconds since the Epoch\n", gettimeofday()
       printf "Pausing for a while... " ; sleep(2.5) ; print "done"

SEE ALSO
       GAWK: Effective AWK Programming, filefuncs(3am), fnmatch(3am), fork(3am), inplace(3am), ordchr(3am), readdir(3am), readfile(3am), revoutput(3am), rwarray(3am).

       gettimeofday(2), nanosleep(2), select(2).

AUTHOR
       Arnold Robbins, arnold@skeeve.com.

COPYING PERMISSIONS
       Copyright © 2012, 2013, 2018, Free Software Foundation, Inc.

       Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this manual page provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are preserved on all copies.

       Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this manual page under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire resulting derived work  is
       distributed under the terms of a permission notice identical to this one.

       Permission  is  granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual page into another language, under the above conditions for modified versions, except that this permis-
       sion notice may be stated in a translation approved by the Foundation.

Free Software Foundation                                                               Nov 21 2019                                                                             TIME(3am)
