2.  System Architecture

   The purpose of NTP is to connect a number of primary reference
   sources, synchronized to national standards by wire or radio, to
   widely accessible resources such as backbone gateways.  These
   gateways, acting as primary time servers, use NTP between them to
   cross-check the clocks and mitigate errors due to equipment or
   propagation failures.  Some number of local-net hosts or gateways,
   acting as secondary time servers, run NTP with one or more of the
   primary servers.  In order to reduce the protocol overhead the
   secondary servers distribute time via NTP to the remaining local-net
   hosts.  In the interest of reliability, selected hosts can be
   equipped with less accurate but less expensive radio clocks and used
   for backup in case of failure of the primary and/or secondary servers
   or communication paths between them.

   There is no provision for peer discovery, acquisition, or
   authentication in NTP.  Data integrity is provided by the IP and UDP
   checksums.  No circuit-management, duplicate-detection or
   retransmission facilities are provided or necessary.  The service can
   operate in a symmetric mode, in which servers and clients are
   indistinguishable, yet maintain a small amount of state information,
   or in client/server mode, in which servers need maintain no state
   other than that contained in the client request.  A lightweight
   association-management capability, including dynamic reachability and
   variable polling rate mechanisms, is included only to manage the
   state information and reduce resource requirements.  Since only a
   single NTP message format is used, the protocol is easily implemented
   and can be used in a variety of solicited or unsolicited polling
   mechanisms.

   It should be recognized that clock synchronization requires by its
   nature long periods and multiple comparisons in order to maintain
   accurate timekeeping.  While only a few measurements are usually
   adequate to reliably determine local time to within a second or so,



Mills                                                           [Page 6]

RFC 1059                 Network Time Protocol                 July 1988


   periods of many hours and dozens of measurements are required to
   resolve oscillator drift and maintain local time to the order of a
   millisecond.  Thus, the accuracy achieved is directly dependent on
   the time taken to achieve it.  Fortunately, the frequency of
   measurements can be quite low and almost always non-intrusive to
   normal net operations.

