2.2.  Network Configurations

   A primary time server is connected to a primary reference source,
   usually a radio clock synchronized to national standard time.  A
   secondary time server derives time synchronization, possibly via
   other secondary servers, from a primary server.  Under normal
   circumstances it is intended that a subnet of primary and secondary
   servers assumes a hierarchical master-slave configuration with the
   more accurate servers near the top and the less accurate below.

   Following conventions established by the telephone industry, the
   accuracy of each server is defined by a number called its stratum,
   with the stratum of a primary server assigned as one and each level
   downwards in the hierarchy assigned as one greater than the preceding
   level.  With current technology and available receiving equipment,
   single-sample accuracies in the order of a millisecond can be
   achieved at the radio clock interface and in the order of a few
   milliseconds at the packet interface to the net.  Accuracies of this
   order require special care in the design and implementation of the
   operating system, such as described in [15], and the logical clock
   mechanism, such as described in Section 5.

   As the stratum increases from one, the single-sample accuracies
   achievable will degrade depending on the communication paths and
   local clock stabilities.  In order to avoid the tedious calculations
   [4] necessary to estimate errors in each specific configuration, it
   is useful to assume the errors accumulate approximately in proportion
   to the minimum total roundtrip path delay between each server and the
   primary reference source to which it is synchronized.  This is called
   the synchronization distance.

   Again drawing from the experience of the telephone industry, who
   learned such lessons at considerable cost, the synchronization paths
   should be organized to produce the highest accuracies, but must never
   be allowed to form a loop.  The clock filter and selection algorithms
   used in NTP accomplish this by using a variant of the Bellman-Ford
   distributed routing algorithm [29] to compute the minimum-weight
   spanning trees rooted on the primary servers.  This results in each
   server operating at the lowest stratum and, in case of multiple peers
   at the same stratum, at the lowest synchronization distance.

   As a result of the above design, the subnet reconfigures
   automatically in a hierarchical master-slave configuration to produce
   the most accurate time, even when one or more primary or secondary
   servers or the communication paths between them fail.  This includes
   the case where all normal primary servers (e.g.,  backbone WWVB
   clocks) on a possibly partitioned subnet fail, but one or more backup
   primary servers (e.g., local WWV clocks) continue operation.



Mills                                                           [Page 9]

RFC 1059                 Network Time Protocol                 July 1988


   However, should all primary servers throughout the subnet fail, the
   remaining secondary servers will synchronize among themselves for
   some time and then gradually drop off the subnet and coast using
   their last offset and frequency computations.  Since these
   computations are expected to be very precise, especially in
   frequency, even extend outage periods of a day or more should result
   in timekeeping errors of not over a few tens of milliseconds.

   In the case of multiple primary servers, the spanning-tree
   computation will usually select the server at minimum synchronization
   distance.  However, when these servers are at approximately the same
   distance, the computation may result in random selections among them
   as the result of normal dispersive delays.  Ordinarily this does not
   degrade accuracy as long as any discrepancy between the primary
   servers is small compared to the synchronization distance.  If not,
   the filter and selection algorithms will select the best of the
   available servers and cast out outlyers as intended.

