3.3.  Modes of Operation

   An NTP host can operate in three modes:  client, server and
   symmetric.  The mode of operation is determined by whether the source
   port (peer.srcport) or destination port (peer.dstport) peer variables
   contain the assigned NTP service port number NTP.PORT (123) as shown
   in the following table.









Mills                                                          [Page 21]

RFC 1059                 Network Time Protocol                 July 1988


           peer.srcport    peer.dstport    Mode
           -------------------------------------------
           not NTP.PORT    not NTP.PORT    not possible
           not NTP.PORT    NTP.PORT        server
           NTP.PORT        not NTP.PORT    client
           NTP.PORT        NTP.PORT        symmetric

   A host operating in client mode occasionally sends an NTP message to
   a host operating in server mode.  The server responds by simply
   interchanging addresses and ports, filling in the required
   information and returning the message to the client.  Servers then
   need retain no state information between client requests.  Clients
   are free to manage the intervals between sending NTP messages to suit
   local conditions.

   In symmetric mode the client/server distinction disappears.  Each
   host maintains a table with as many entries as active peers.  Each
   entry includes a code uniquely identifying the peer (e.g.,  Internet
   address and port), together with status information and a copy of the
   timestamps last received.  A host operating in symmetric mode
   periodically sends NTP messages to each peer including the latest
   copy of the timestamps.  The intervals between sending NTP messages
   are managed jointly by the host and each peer using the polling
   variables peer.ppoll and peer.hpoll.

   When a pair of peers operating in symmetric mode exchange NTP
   messages and each determines that the other is reachable, an
   association is formed.  One or both peers must be in active state;
   that is, sending messages to the other regardless of reachability
   status.  A peer not in active state is in passive state.  If a peer
   operating in passive state discovers that the other peer is no longer
   reachable, it ceases sending messages and reclaims the storage and
   timer resources used by the association.  A peer operating in client
   mode is always in active state, while a peer operating in server mode
   is always in passive state.

