3.4.1.  Timeout Procedure

   The timeout procedure is called in client and symmetric modes when
   the peer timer (peer.timer) reaches the value of the timer threshold
   (peer.threshold) variable.  First, the reachability register
   (peer.reach) is shifted one position to the left and a zero replaces
   the vacated bit.  Then an NTP message is constructed and sent to the
   peer.  If operating in active state or in passive state and
   peer.reach is nonzero (reachable), the peer.timer is reinitialized
   (resumes counting from zero) and the value of peer.threshold is set
   to:

           peer.threshold <- max( min( peer.ppoll, peer.hpoll,
                           NTP.MAXPOLL), NTP.MINPOLL) .

   If operating in active state and peer.reach is zero (unreachable),
   the peer variables are updated as follows:

                   peer.hpoll <- NTP.MINPOLL
                   peer.disp <- NTP.MAXDISP
                   peer.filter <- 0 (cleared)
                   peer.org <- 0
                   peer.rec <- 0

   Then the clock selection algorithm is called, which may result in a
   new clock source (sys.peer).  In other cases the protocol ceases
   operation and the storage and timer resources are reclaimed for
   subsequent use.

   An NTP message is constructed as follows (see Appendices A and B for
   formats).  First, the IP and UDP packet variables are copied from the
   peer variables (note the interchange of source and destination
   addresses and ports):

           pkt.srcadr <- peer.dstadr       pkt.srcport <- peer.dstport
           pkt.dstadr <- peer.srcadr       pkt.dstport <- peer.srcport

   Next, the NTP packet variables are copied (rescaled as necessary)
   from the system and peer variables:

           pkt.leap <- sys.leap            pkt.distance <- sys.distance
           pkt.version <- NTP.VERSION      pkt.drift <- sys.drift
           pkt.stratum <- sys.stratum      pkt.refid <- sys.refid
           pkt.poll <- peer.hpoll          pkt.reftime <- sys.reftime
           pkt.precision <- sys.precision

   Finally, the NTP packet timestamp variables are copied, depending on
   whether the peer is operating in symmetric mode and reachable, in



Mills                                                          [Page 23]

RFC 1059                 Network Time Protocol                 July 1988


   symmetric mode and not reachable (but active) or in client mode:

   Symmetric Reachable     Symmetric Active        Client
   - -------------------     -------------------     -------------------
   pkt.org <- peer.org     pkt.org <- 0            pkt.org <- sys.clock
   pkt.rec <- peer.rec     pkt.rec <- 0            pkt.rec <- sys.clock
   pkt.xmt <- sys.clock    pkt.xmt <- sys.clock    pkt.xmt <- sys.clock

   Note that the order of copying should be designed so that the time to
   perform the copy operations themselves does not degrade the
   measurement accuracy, which implies that the sys.clock values should
   be copied last.  The reason for the choice of zeros to fill the
   pkt.org and pkt.rec packet variables in the symmetric unreachable
   case is to avoid the use of old data after a possibly extensive
   period of unreachability.  The reason for the choice of sys.clock to
   fill these variables in the client case is that, if for some reason
   the NTP message is returned by the recipient unaltered, as when
   testing with an Internet-echo server, this convention still allows at
   least the roundtrip time to be accurately determined without special
   handling.

