3.4.3.  Update Procedure

   The update procedure is called when a new delay/offset estimate is
   available.  First, the clock selection algorithm determines the best
   peer on the basis of estimated accuracy and reliability, which may
   result in a new clock source (sys.peer).  If sys.peer points to the
   peer data structure with the just-updated estimates, the state
   variables of that peer are used to update the system state variables








Mills                                                          [Page 27]

RFC 1059                 Network Time Protocol                 July 1988


   as follows:

                   sys.leap <- peer.leap
                   sys.stratum <- peer.stratum + 1
                   sys.distance <- peer.distance + peer.delay
                   sys.refid <- peer.srcadr
                   sys.reftime <- peer.rec

   Finally, the logical clock procedure is called with peer.offset as
   argument to update the logical clock (sys.clock) and recompute the
   estimated drift rate (sys.drift).  It may happen that the logical
   clock may be reset, rather than slewed to its final value.  In this
   case the peer variables of all reachable peers are are updated as
   follows:

                   peer.hpoll <- NTP.MINPOLL
                   peer.disp <- NTP.MAXDISP
                   peer.filter <- 0 (cleared)
                   peer.org <- 0
                   peer.rec <- 0

   and the clock selection algorithm is called again, which results in a
   null clock source (sys.peer = 0).  A new selection will occur when
   the filters fill up again and the dispersion settles down.

   Specification of the clock selection algorithm and logical clock
   procedure is not an integral part of the NTP specification.  A clock
   selection algorithm found to work well in the Internet environment is
   described in Section 4, while a logical clock procedure is described
   in Section 5.  The clock selection algorithm described in Section 4
   usually picks the server at the highest stratum and minimum delay
   among all those available, unless that server appears to be a
   falseticker.  The result is that the algorithms all work to build a
   minimum-weight spanning tree relative to the primary servers and thus
   a hierarchical master-slave system similar to those used by some
   digital telephone networks.















Mills                                                          [Page 28]

RFC 1059                 Network Time Protocol                 July 1988


