5.1.  Uniform Phase Adjustments

   Left uncorrected, the logical clock runs at the rate of its intrinsic
   oscillator.  A correction is introduced as a signed 32-bit integer in
   milliseconds, which is added to the Drift-Compensation Register and
   also replaces bits 0-15 of the Clock-Adjust Register, with bits 16-31
   set to zero.  At adjustment intervals of CLOCK.ADJ a correction
   consisting of two components is computed.  The first (phase)
   component consists of the Clock-Adjust Register shifted right
   CLOCK.PHASE bits, which is then subtracted from the Clock-Adjust
   Register.  The second (frequency) component consists of the Drift-
   Compensation Register shifted right CLOCK.FREQ bits.  The sum of the
   phase and frequency components is the correction, which is then added
   to the Clock Register.  Operation continues in this way until a new
   correction is introduced.

   Care is required in the implementation to insure monotonicity of the
   Clock Register and to preserve the highest precision while minimizing
   the propagation of roundoff errors.  This can be done by buffering
   the corrections and adding them to the increment at the time the
   Clock Register is next updated.  Monotonicity is insured with the
   parameters shown in Table 5.1, as long as the increment is at least 2
   ms.  This table shows the above parameters and others discussed below
   for both a crystal-stabilized oscillator and a mains-frequency
   oscillator.

   Parameter               Name            Crystal         Mains
   -------------------------------------------------------------------
   Update Interval         CLOCK.ADJ       4 sec           1 sec
   Phase Shift             CLOCK.PHASE     -8              -9
   Frequency Shift         CLOCK.FREQ      -16             -16
   Maximum Aperture        CLOCK.MAX       +-128 ms        +-256 ms
   Shift Register Size     PEER.SHIFT      8               4
   Host Poll Interval      peer.hpoll      NTP.MINPOLL     NTP.MINPOLL
                                            (64 sec)        (64 sec)

                        Table 5.1. Clock Parameters

   The above design constitutes a second-order phase-lock loop which
   adjusts the logical clock phase and frequency to compensate for the
   intrinsic oscillator jitter, wander and drift.  Simulation of a loop



Mills                                                          [Page 35]

RFC 1059                 Network Time Protocol                 July 1988


   with parameters chosen from Table 5.1 for a crystal-stabilized
   oscillator and the clock filter described in Section 4 results in the
   following transient response:  For a phase correction of 100 ms the
   loop reaches zero error in 34 minutes, overshoots 7 ms in 76 minutes
   and settles to less than 1 ms in about four hours.  The maximum
   frequency error is about 6 ppm at 40 minutes and returns to less than
   1 ppm in about eight hours.  For a frequency correction of 10 ppm the
   loop settles to within 1 ppm in about nine hours and to within 0.1
   ppm in about a day.  These characteristics are appropriate for
   typical computing equipment using board-mounted crystals without oven
   temperature control.

   In those cases where mains-frequency oscillators must be used, the
   loop parameters must be adapted for the relatively high jitter and
   wander characteristics of the national power grid, in which diurnal
   peak-to-peak phase excursions can exceed four seconds.  Simulation of
   a loop with parameters chosen from Table 5.1 for a mains-frequency
   oscillator and the clock filter described in Section 4 results in a
   transient response similar to the crystal-stabilized case, but with
   time constants only one-fourth those in that case.  When presented
   with actual phase-offset data for typical Summer days when the jitter
   and wander are the largest, the loop errors are in the order of a few
   tens of milliseconds, but not greater than 150 ms.

   The above simulations assume the clock filter algorithm operates to
   select the oldest sample in the shift register at each step;  that
   is, the filter operates as a delay line with delay equal to the
   polling interval times the number of stages.  This is a worst-case
   scenario, since the larger the overall delay the harder it is to
   maintain low loop errors together with good transient response.  The
   parameters in Table 5.1 were experimentally determined with this
   scenario and the constraint that the polling interval could not be
   reduced below 64 seconds.  With these parameters it is not possible
   to increase the polling interval above 64 seconds without significant
   increase in loop error or degradation of transient response.  Thus,
   when a clock is selected according to the algorithms of Section 4,
   the polling interval peer.hpoll is always set at NTP.MINPOLL.

