3.2.1.  Common Variables

   The following variables are common to the system, peer and packet
   classes.

   Peer Address (peer.srcadr, pkt.srcadr) Peer Port (peer.srcport,
   pkt.srcport)



Mills                                                          [Page 15]

RFC 1059                 Network Time Protocol                 July 1988


      These are the 32-bit Internet address and 16-bit port number of
      the remote host.

   Local Address (peer.dstadr, pkt.dstadr) Local Port (peer.dstport,
   pkt.dstport)

      These are the 32-bit Internet address and 16-bit port number of
      the local host.  They are included among the state variables to
      support multi-homing.

   Leap Indicator (sys.leap, peer.leap, pkt.leap)

      This is a two-bit code warning of an impending leap second to be
      inserted in the NTP time scale.  The bits are set before 23:59 on
      the day of insertion and reset after 00:01 on the following day.
      This causes the number of seconds (rollover interval) in the day
      of insertion to be increased or decreased by one.  In the case of
      primary servers the bits are set by operator intervention, while
      in the case of secondary servers the bits are set by the protocol.
      The two bits are coded as follows:

                   00      no warning (day has 86400 seconds)
                   01      +1 second (day has 86401 seconds)
                           seconds)
                   10      -1 second (day has 86399 seconds)
                           seconds)
                   11      alarm condition (clock not synchronized)

      In all except the alarm condition (11) NTP itself does nothing
      with these bits, except pass them on to the time-conversion
      routines that are not part of NTP.  The alarm condition occurs
      when, for whatever reason, the logical clock is not synchronized,
      such as when first coming up or after an extended period when no
      outside reference source is available.

   Stratum (sys.stratum, peer.stratum, pkt.stratum)

      This is an integer indicating the stratum of the logical clock.  A
      value of zero is interpreted as unspecified, one as a primary
      clock (synchronized by outside means) and remaining values as the
      stratum level (synchronized by NTP).  For comparison purposes a
      value of zero is considered greater than any other value.

   Peer Poll Interval (peer.ppoll, pkt.poll)

      This is a signed integer used only in symmetric mode and
      indicating the minimum interval between messages sent to the peer,
      in seconds as a power of two.  For instance, a value of six



Mills                                                          [Page 16]

RFC 1059                 Network Time Protocol                 July 1988


      indicates a minimum interval of 64 seconds.  The value of this
      variable must not be less than NTP.MINPOLL and must not be greater
      than NTP.MAXPOLL.

   Precision (sys.precision, peer.precision, pkt.precision)

      This is a signed integer indicating the precision of the logical
      clock, in seconds to the nearest power of two.  For instance, a
      60-Hz line-frequency clock would be assigned the value -6, while a
      1000-Hz crystal-derived clock would be assigned the value -10.

   Synchronizing Distance (sys.distance, peer.distance, pkt.distance)

      This is a fixed-point number indicating the estimated roundtrip
      delay to the primary clock, in seconds.


   Estimated Drift Rate (sys.drift, peer.drift, pkt.drift)

      This is a fixed-point number indicating the estimated drift rate
      of the local clock, in dimensionless units.

   Reference Clock Identifier (sys.refid, peer.refid, pkt.refid)

      This is a code identifying the particular reference clock or
      server.  The interpretation of the value depends on the stratum.
      For stratum values of zero (unspecified) or one (primary clock),
      the value is an ASCII string identifying the reason or clock,
      respectively.  For stratum values greater than one (synchronized
      by NTP), the value is the 32-bit Internet address of the reference
      server.

   Reference Timestamp (sys.reftime, peer.reftime, pkt.reftime)

      This is the local time, in timestamp format, when the logical
      clock was last updated.  If the logical clock has never been
      synchronized, the value is zero.

