3.2.6.  Parameters

   Following is a list of parameters assumed for all implementations
   operating in the Internet system.  It is necessary to agree on the
   values for these parameters in order to avoid unnecessary network
   overheads and stable peer associations.

   Version Number (NTP.VERSION)

      This is the NTP version number, currently one (1).

   NTP Port (NTP.PORT)

      This is the port number (123) assigned by the Internet Number Czar
      to NTP.

   Minimum Polling Interval (NTP.MINPOLL)

      This is the minimum polling interval allowed by any peer of the
      Internet system, currently set to 6 (64 seconds).

   Maximum Polling Interval (NTP.MAXPOLL)

      This is the maximum polling interval allowed by any peer of the
      Internet system, currently set to 10 (1024 seconds).

   Maximum Dispersion (NTP.MAXDISP)

      This is the maximum dispersion assumed by the filter algorithms,
      currently set to 65535 milliseconds.




Mills                                                          [Page 20]

RFC 1059                 Network Time Protocol                 July 1988


   Reachability Register Size (PEER.WINDOW)

      This is the size of the Reachability Register (peer.reach),
      currently set to eight (8) bits.

   Shift Register Size (PEER.SHIFT)

      When the filter and selection algorithms suggested in Section 4
      are used, this is the size of the Clock Filter (peer.filter) shift
      register, in bits.  For crystal-stabilized oscillators a value of
      eight (8) is suggested, while for mains-frequency oscillators a
      value of four (4) is suggested.  Additional considerations are
      given in Section 5.

   Dispersion Threshold (PEER.THRESHOLD)

      When the filter and selection algorithms suggested in Section 4
      are used, this is the threshold used to discard noisy data.  While
      a value of 500 milliseconds is suggested, the value may be changed
      to suit local conditions on particular peer paths.

   Filter Weight (PEER.FILTER)

      When the filter algorithm suggested in Section 4 is used, this is
      the filter weight used to discard noisy data.  While a value of
      0.5 is suggested, the value may be changed to suit local
      conditions on particular peer paths.

   Select Weight (PEER.SELECT)

      When the selection algorithm suggested in Section 4 is used, this
      is the select weight used to discard outlyers.  data.  While a
      value of 0.75 is suggested, the value may be changed to suit local
      conditions on particular peer paths.

