5.4.  Estimating Errors

   After an NTP message is received and until the next one is received,
   the accuracy of the local clock can be expected to degrade somewhat.
   The magnitude of this degradation depends on the error at the last
   update time together with the drift of the local oscillator with
   respect to time.  It is possible to estimate both the error and drift
   rate from data collected during regular operation.  These data can be
   used to determine the rate at which NTP neighbors should exchange NTP
   messages and thus control net overheads.

   NTP messages include the local-clock precision of the sender, as well



Mills                                                          [Page 37]

RFC 1059                 Network Time Protocol                 July 1988


   as the reference time, estimated drift and a quantity called the
   synchronizing distance.  The precision of the local clock, together
   with its peer clocks, establishes the short-term jitter
   characteristics of the offset estimates.  The reference time and
   estimated drift of the sender provide an error estimate at the time
   the latest update was received.  The synchronizing distance provides
   an estimate of error relative to the primary reference source and is
   used by the filtering algorithms to improve the quality and
   reliability of the offset estimates.

   Estimates of error and drift rate are not essential for the correct
   functioning of the clock algorithms, but do improve the accuracy and
   adjustment with respect to net overheads.  The estimated error allows
   the recipient to compute the rate at which independent samples are
   required in order to maintain a specified estimated error.  The
   estimated drift rate allows the recipient to estimate the optimum
   polling interval.

   It is possible to compute the estimated drift rate of the local clock
   to a high degree of precision by simply adding the n offsets received
   during an interval T to an accumulator.  If X1 and X2 are the values
   of the accumulator at the beginning and end of T, then the estimated
   drift rate r is:

                               X2 - X1  n
                           r = ------- --- .
                                  n     T

   The intrinsic (uncorrected) drift rate of typical crystal oscillators
   under room-temperature conditions is in the order of from a few parts
   per million (ppm) to as much as 100 ppm, or up to a few seconds per
   day.  For most purposes the drift of a particular crystal oscillator
   is constant to within perhaps one ppm.  Assuming T can be estimated
   to within 100 ms, for example, it would take about a day of
   accumulation to estimate r to an uncertainty in the order of one ppm.

   Some idea of the estimated error of the local clock can be derived
   from the variance of the offsets about the mean per unit time.  This
   can be computed by adding the n offset squares received during T to
   an accumulator.  If Y1 and Y2 are the values of the accumulator at
   the beginning and end of T, then the estimated error s is:

                         Y2 - Y1   (X2 - X1)^2    n
                   s = ( ------- - ----------- ) --- .
                            n         n * n       T

   The quantities r and s have direct utility to the peer as noted
   above.  However, they also have indirect utility to the recipient of



Mills                                                          [Page 38]

RFC 1059                 Network Time Protocol                 July 1988


   an NTP message sent by that peer, since they can be used as weights
   in such algorithms as described in [22], as well as to improve the
   estimates during periods when offsets are not available.  It is most
   useful if the latest estimate of these quantities are available in
   each NTP message sent;  however, considerable latitude remains in the
   details of computation and storage.

   The above formulae for r and s imply equal weighting for offsets
   received throughout the accumulation interval T.  One way to do this
   is using a software shift register implemented as a circular buffer.
   A single pointer points to the active entry in the buffer and
   advances around one entry as each new offset is stored.  There are
   two accumulators, one for the offset and the other for its squares.
   When a new offset arrives, a quantity equal to the new offset minus
   the old (active) entry is added to the first accumulator and the
   square of this quantity is added to the second.  Finally, the offset
   is stored in the circular buffer.

   The size of the circular buffer depends on the accumulation interval
   T and the rate offsets are produced.  In many reachability and
   routing algorithms, such as GGP, EGP and local-net control
   algorithms, peers exchange messages on the order of once or twice a
   minute.  If NTP peers exchanged messages at a rate of one per minute
   and if T were one day, the circular buffer would have to be 1440
   words long;  however, a less costly design might aggregate the data
   in something like half-hour segments, which would reduce the length
   of the buffer to 48 words while not significantly affecting the
   quality of the data.























Mills                                                          [Page 39]

RFC 1059                 Network Time Protocol                 July 1988


