*04.8*	Text objects

If the cursor is in the middle of a word and you want to delete that word, you
need to move back to its start before you can do "dw".  There is a simpler way
to do this: "daw".

	this is some example text. ~
		       daw

	this is some text. ~

The "d" of "daw" is the delete operator.  "aw" is a text object.  Hint: "aw"
stands for "A Word".  Thus "daw" is "Delete A Word".  To be precise, the white
space after the word is also deleted (or the white space before the word if at
the end of the line).

Using text objects is the third way to make changes in Vim.  We already had
operator-motion and Visual mode.  Now we add operator-text object.
   It is very similar to operator-motion, but instead of operating on the text
between the cursor position before and after a movement command, the text
object is used as a whole.  It doesn't matter where in the object the cursor
was.

To change a whole sentence use "cis".  Take this text:

	Hello there.  This ~
	is an example.  Just ~
	some text. ~

Move to the start of the second line, on "is an".  Now use "cis":

	Hello there.    Just ~
	some text. ~

The cursor is in between the blanks in the first line.  Now you type the new
sentence "Another line.":

	Hello there.  Another line.  Just ~
	some text. ~

"cis" consists of the "c" (change) operator and the "is" text object.  This
stands for "Inner Sentence".  There is also the "as" ("A Sentence") object.
The difference is that "as" includes the white space after the sentence and
"is" doesn't.  If you would delete a sentence, you want to delete the white
space at the same time, thus use "das".  If you want to type new text the
white space can remain, thus you use "cis".

You can also use text objects in Visual mode.  It will include the text object
in the Visual selection.  Visual mode continues, thus you can do this several
times.  For example, start Visual mode with "v" and select a sentence with
"as".  Now you can repeat "as" to include more sentences.  Finally you use an
operator to do something with the selected sentences.

You can find a long list of text objects here: |text-objects|.

