CONNECTING TO AN RSYNC DAEMON
       It is also possible to use rsync without a remote shell as the transport.  In this case you will directly connect to a remote rsync daemon, typically using TCP port  873.   (This
       obviously requires the daemon to be running on the remote system, so refer to the STARTING AN RSYNC DAEMON TO ACCEPT CONNECTIONS section below for information on that.)

       Using rsync in this way is the same as using it with a remote shell except that:

       o      you either use a double colon :: instead of a single colon to separate the hostname from the path, or you use an rsync:// URL.

       o      the first word of the "path" is actually a module name.

       o      the remote daemon may print a message of the day when you connect.

       o      if you specify no path name on the remote daemon then the list of accessible paths on the daemon will be shown.

       o      if you specify no local destination then a listing of the specified files on the remote daemon is provided.

       o      you must not specify the --rsh (-e) option.

       An example that copies all the files in a remote module named "src":

           rsync -av host::src /dest

       Some  modules  on the remote daemon may require authentication. If so, you will receive a password prompt when you connect. You can avoid the password prompt by setting the envi-
       ronment variable RSYNC_PASSWORD to the password you want to use or using the --password-file option. This may be useful when scripting rsync.

       WARNING: On some systems environment variables are visible to all users. On those systems using --password-file is recommended.

       You may establish the connection via a web proxy by setting the environment variable RSYNC_PROXY to a hostname:port pair pointing to your web proxy.  Note that your  web  proxy's
       configuration must support proxy connections to port 873.

       You  may also establish a daemon connection using a program as a proxy by setting the environment variable RSYNC_CONNECT_PROG to the commands you wish to run in place of making a
       direct socket connection.  The string may contain the escape "%H" to represent the hostname specified in the rsync command (so use "%%" if you need a single "%" in your  string).
       For example:

         export RSYNC_CONNECT_PROG='ssh proxyhost nc %H 873'
         rsync -av targethost1::module/src/ /dest/
         rsync -av rsync:://targethost2/module/src/ /dest/

       The command specified above uses ssh to run nc (netcat) on a proxyhost, which forwards all data to port 873 (the rsync daemon) on the targethost (%H).

USING RSYNC-DAEMON FEATURES VIA A REMOTE-SHELL CONNECTION
       It  is  sometimes useful to use various features of an rsync daemon (such as named modules) without actually allowing any new socket connections into a system (other than what is
       already required to allow remote-shell access).  Rsync supports connecting to a host using a remote shell and then spawning a single-use "daemon" server that expects to read  its
       config  file in the home dir of the remote user.  This can be useful if you want to encrypt a daemon-style transfer's data, but since the daemon is started up fresh by the remote
       user, you may not be able to use features such as chroot or change the uid used by the daemon.  (For another way to encrypt a daemon transfer, consider  using  ssh  to  tunnel  a
       local port to a remote machine and configure a normal rsync daemon on that remote host to only allow connections from "localhost".)

       From  the  user's perspective, a daemon transfer via a remote-shell connection uses nearly the same command-line syntax as a normal rsync-daemon transfer, with the only exception
       being that you must explicitly set the remote shell program on the command-line with the --rsh=COMMAND option.  (Setting the RSYNC_RSH in the environment will not  turn  on  this
       functionality.)  For example:

           rsync -av --rsh=ssh host::module /dest

       If  you  need  to  specify  a  different remote-shell user, keep in mind that the user@ prefix in front of the host is specifying the rsync-user value (for a module that requires
       user-based authentication).  This means that you must give the '-l user' option to ssh when specifying the remote-shell, as in this example that uses the  short  version  of  the
       --rsh option:

           rsync -av -e "ssh -l ssh-user" rsync-user@host::module /dest

       The "ssh-user" will be used at the ssh level; the "rsync-user" will be used to log-in to the "module".

