5. PostScript CJK Printing			*postscript-cjk-printing*
							*E673* *E674* *E675*

Vim supports printing of Chinese, Japanese, and Korean files.  Setting up Vim
to correctly print CJK files requires setting up a few more options.

Each of these countries has many standard character sets and encodings which
require that both be specified when printing.  In addition, CJK fonts normally
do not have the concept of italic glyphs and use different weight or stroke
style to achieve emphasis when printing.  This in turn requires a different
approach to specifying fonts to use when printing.

The encoding and character set are specified with the 'printencoding' and
'printmbcharset' options.  If 'printencoding' is not specified then 'encoding'
is used as normal.  If 'printencoding' is specified then characters will be
translated to this encoding for printing.  You should ensure that the encoding
is compatible with the character set needed for the file contents or some
characters may not appear when printed.

The fonts to use for CJK printing are specified with 'printmbfont'.  This
option allows you to specify different fonts to use when printing characters
which are syntax highlighted with the font styles normal, italic, bold and
bold-italic.

No CJK fonts are supplied with Vim.  There are some free Korean, Japanese, and
Traditional Chinese fonts available at:

  http://examples.oreilly.com/cjkvinfo/adobe/samples/

You can find descriptions of the various fonts in the read me file at

  http://examples.oreilly.de/english_examples/cjkvinfo/adobe/00README

Please read your printer documentation on how to install new fonts.

CJK fonts can be large containing several thousand glyphs, and it is not
uncommon to find that they only contain a subset of a national standard.  It
is not unusual to find the fonts to not include characters for codes in the
ASCII code range.  If you find half-width Roman characters are not appearing
in your printout then you should configure Vim to use the Courier font the
half-width ASCII characters with 'printmbfont'.  If your font does not include
other characters then you will need to find another font that does.

Another issue with ASCII characters, is that the various national character
sets specify a couple of different glyphs in the ASCII code range.  If you
print ASCII text using the national character set you may see some unexpected
characters.  If you want true ASCII code printing then you need to configure
Vim to output ASCII characters for the ASCII code range with 'printmbfont'.

It is possible to define your own multi-byte character set although this
should not be attempted lightly.  A discussion on the process if beyond the
scope of these help files.  You can find details on CMap (character map) files
in the document 'Adobe CMap and CIDFont Files Specification, Version 1.0',
available from http://www.adobe.com as a PDF file.

