1. Cscope introduction					*cscope-intro*

The following text is taken from a version of the cscope man page:

				    -----

  Cscope is an interactive screen-oriented tool that helps you:

       Learn how a C program works without endless flipping through a thick
       listing.

       Locate the section of code to change to fix a bug without having to
       learn the entire program.

       Examine the effect of a proposed change such as adding a value to an
       enum variable.

       Verify that a change has been made in all source files such as adding
       an argument to an existing function.

       Rename a global variable in all source files.

       Change a constant to a preprocessor symbol in selected lines of files.

  It is designed to answer questions like:
       Where is this symbol used?
       Where is it defined?
       Where did this variable get its value?
       What is this global symbol's definition?
       Where is this function in the source files?
       What functions call this function?
       What functions are called by this function?
       Where does the message "out of space" come from?
       Where is this source file in the directory structure?
       What files include this header file?

  Cscope answers these questions from a symbol database that it builds the
  first time it is used on the source files.  On a subsequent call, cscope
  rebuilds the database only if a source file has changed or the list of
  source files is different.  When the database is rebuilt the data for the
  unchanged files is copied from the old database, which makes rebuilding
  much faster than the initial build.

				    -----

When cscope is normally invoked, you will get a full-screen selection
screen allowing you to make a query for one of the above questions.
However, once a match is found to your query and you have entered your
text editor to edit the source file containing match, you cannot simply
jump from tag to tag as you normally would with vi's Ctrl-] or :tag
command.

Vim's cscope interface is done by invoking cscope with its line-oriented
interface, and then parsing the output returned from a query.  The end
result is that cscope query results become just like regular tags, so
you can jump to them just like you do with normal tags (Ctrl-] or :tag)
and then go back by popping off the tagstack with Ctrl-T.  (Please note
however, that you don't actually jump to a cscope tag simply by doing
Ctrl-] or :tag without remapping these commands or setting an option.
See the remaining sections on how the cscope interface works and for
suggested use.)


