Miscellaneous Options
       broadcastdelay seconds
              The broadcast and multicast modes require a special calibration to determine the network delay between the local and remote servers.  Ordinarily, this  is  done  automati-
              cally  by  the  initial  protocol exchanges between the client and server.  In some cases, the calibration procedure may fail due to network or server access controls, for
              example.  This command specifies the default delay to be used under these circumstances.  Typically (for Ethernet), a number between 0.003 and 0.007 seconds  is  appropri-
              ate.  The default when this command is not used is 0.004 seconds.

       calldelay delay
              This option controls the delay in seconds between the first and second packets sent in burst or iburst mode to allow additional time for a modem or ISDN call to complete.

       driftfile driftfile
              This  command  specifies  the  complete path and name of the file used to record the frequency of the local clock oscillator.  This is the same operation as the -f command
              line option.  If the file exists, it is read at startup in order to set the initial frequency and then updated once per hour with the current  frequency  computed  by  the
              daemon.  If the file name is specified, but the file itself does not exist, the starts with an initial frequency of zero and creates the file when writing it for the first
              time.  If this command is not given, the daemon will always start with an initial frequency of zero.

              The file format consists of a single line containing a single floating point number, which records the frequency offset measured in parts-per-million (PPM).  The  file  is
              updated  by  first writing the current drift value into a temporary file and then renaming this file to replace the old version.  This implies that ntpd(8) must have write
              permission for the directory the drift file is located in, and that file system links, symbolic or otherwise, should be avoided.

       dscp value
              This option specifies the Differentiated Services Control Point (DSCP) value, a 6-bit code.  The default value is 46, signifying Expedited Forwarding.

       enable [auth | bclient | calibrate | kernel | mode7 | monitor | ntp | stats | peer_clear_digest_early | unpeer_crypto_early | unpeer_crypto_nak_early | unpeer_digest_early]

       disable [auth | bclient | calibrate | kernel | mode7 | monitor | ntp | stats | peer_clear_digest_early | unpeer_crypto_early | unpeer_crypto_nak_early | unpeer_digest_early]
              Provides a way to enable or disable various server options.  Flags not mentioned are unaffected.  Note that all of  these  flags  can  be  controlled  remotely  using  the
              ntpdc(8) utility program.

              auth   Enables  the  server  to  synchronize with unconfigured peers only if the peer has been correctly authenticated using either public key or private key cryptography.
                     The default for this flag is enable.

              bclient
                     Enables the server to listen for a message from a broadcast or multicast server, as in the multicastclient command with default address.  The default for this  flag
                     is disable.

              calibrate
                     Enables the calibrate feature for reference clocks.  The default for this flag is disable.

              kernel Enables the kernel time discipline, if available.  The default for this flag is enable if support is available, otherwise disable.

              mode7  Enables  processing  of  NTP mode 7 implementation-specific requests which are used by the deprecated ntpdc(8) program.  The default for this flag is disable.  This
                     flag is excluded from runtime configuration using ntpq(8).  The ntpq(8) program provides the same capabilities as ntpdc(8) using standard mode 6 requests.

              monitor
                     Enables the monitoring facility.  See the ntpdc(8) program and the monlist command or further information.  The default for this flag is enable.

              ntp    Enables time and frequency discipline.  In effect, this switch opens and closes the feedback loop, which is useful for  testing.   The  default  for  this  flag  is
                     enable.

              peer_clear_digest_early
                     By  default,  if  ntpd(8)  is  using autokey and it receives a crypto-NAK packet that passes the duplicate packet and origin timestamp checks the peer variables are
                     immediately cleared.  While this is generally a feature as it allows for quick recovery if a server key has changed, a properly forged and  appropriately  delivered
                     crypto-NAK  packet  can be used in a DoS attack.  If you have active noticable problems with this type of DoS attack then you should consider disabling this option.
                     You can check your peerstats file for evidence of any of these attacks.  The default for this flag is enable.

              stats  Enables the statistics facility.  See the Monitoring Options section for further information.  The default for this flag is disable.

              unpeer_crypto_early
                     By default, if ntpd(8) receives an autokey packet that fails TEST9, a crypto failure, the association is immediately cleared.  This is almost certainly  a  feature,
                     but if, in spite of the current recommendation of not using autokey, you are still using autokey and you are seeing this sort of DoS attack disabling this flag will
                     delay tearing down the association until the reachability counter becomes zero.  You can check your peerstats file for  evidence  of  any  of  these  attacks.   The
                     default for this flag is enable.

              unpeer_crypto_nak_early
                     By default, if ntpd(8) receives a crypto-NAK packet that passes the duplicate packet and origin timestamp checks the association is immediately cleared.  While this
                     is generally a feature as it allows for quick recovery if a server key has changed, a properly forged and appropriately delivered crypto-NAK packet can be used in a
                     DoS  attack.   If you have active noticable problems with this type of DoS attack then you should consider disabling this option.  You can check your peerstats file
                     for evidence of any of these attacks.  The default for this flag is enable.

              unpeer_digest_early
                     By default, if ntpd(8) receives what should be an authenticated packet that passes other packet sanity checks but contains an  invalid  digest  the  association  is
                     immediately  cleared.   While this is generally a feature as it allows for quick recovery, if this type of packet is carefully forged and sent during an appropriate
                     window it can be used for a DoS attack.  If you have active noticable problems with this type of DoS attack then you should consider disabling this option.  You can
                     check your peerstats file for evidence of any of these attacks.  The default for this flag is enable.

       includefile includefile
              This  command  allows  additional configuration commands to be included from a separate file.  Include files may be nested to a depth of five; upon reaching the end of any
              include file, command processing resumes in the previous configuration file.  This option is useful for sites that run ntpd(8) on  multiple  hosts,  with  (mostly)  common
              options (e.g., a restriction list).

       interface [listen | ignore | drop] [all | ipv4 | ipv6 | wildcard name | address [/ prefixlen]]
              The  interface  directive  controls  which network addresses ntpd(8) opens, and whether input is dropped without processing.  The first parameter determines the action for
              addresses which match the second parameter.  The second parameter specifies a class of addresses, or a specific interface name, or an address.  In the address  case,  pre-
              fixlen  determines  how  many  bits  must  match  for this rule to apply.  ignore prevents opening matching addresses, drop causes ntpd(8) to open the address and drop all
              received packets without examination.  Multiple interface directives can be used.  The last rule which matches a particular address determines the action for  it.   inter-
              face  directives  are  disabled if any -I, --interface, -L, or --novirtualips command-line options are specified in the configuration file, all available network addresses
              are opened.  The nic directive is an alias for interface.

       leapfile leapfile
              This command loads the IERS leapseconds file and initializes the leapsecond values for the next leapsecond event, leapfile expiration time, and TAI offset.  The  file  can
              be  obtained directly from the IERS at https://hpiers.obspm.fr/iers/bul/bulc/ntp/leap-seconds.list or ftp://hpiers.obspm.fr/iers/bul/bulc/ntp/leap-seconds.list.  The leap-
              file is scanned when ntpd(8) processes the leapfile directive or when ntpd detects that the leapfile has changed.  ntpd checks once a  day  to  see  if  the  leapfile  has
              changed.  The update-leap(1update_leapmdoc) script can be run to see if the leapfile should be updated.

       leapsmearinterval seconds
              This  EXPERIMENTAL  option is only available if ntpd(8) was built with the --enable-leap-smear option to the configure script.  It specifies the interval over which a leap
              second correction will be applied.  Recommended values for this option are between 7200 (2 hours) and 86400 (24 hours).  See http://bugs.ntp.org/2855 for more information.

       logconfig configkeyword
              This command controls the amount and type of output written to the system syslog(3) facility or the alternate logfile log file.  By default, all output is turned on.   All
              configkeyword  keywords  can  be  prefixed with '=', '+' and '-', where '=' sets the syslog(3) priority mask, '+' adds and '-' removes messages.  syslog(3) messages can be
              controlled in four classes (clock, peer, sys and sync).  Within these classes four types of messages can be  controlled:  informational  messages  (info),  event  messages
              (events), statistics messages (statistics) and status messages (status).

              Configuration  keywords  are  formed  by concatenating the message class with the event class.  The all prefix can be used instead of a message class.  A message class may
              also be followed by the all keyword to enable/disable all messages of the respective message class.  Thus, a minimal log configuration could look like this:
                  logconfig =syncstatus +sysevents

              This would just list the synchronizations state of ntpd(8) and the major system events.  For a simple reference server, the following minimum message  configuration  could
              be useful:
                  logconfig =syncall +clockall

              This configuration will list all clock information and synchronization information.  All other events and messages about peers, system events and so on is suppressed.

       logfile logfile
              This  command  specifies  the  location of an alternate log file to be used instead of the default system syslog(3) facility.  This is the same operation as the -l command
              line option.

       mru [maxdepth count | maxmem kilobytes | mindepth count | maxage seconds | initialloc count | initmem kilobytes | incalloc count | incmem kilobytes]
              Controls size limite of the monitoring facility's Most Recently Used (MRU) list of client addresses, which is also used by the rate control facility.

              maxdepth count

              maxmem kilobytes
                     Equivalent upper limits on the size of the MRU list, in terms of entries or kilobytes.  The acutal limit will be up to incalloc entries or incmem kilobytes  larger.
                     As  with  all  of  the  mru options offered in units of entries or kilobytes, if both maxdepth and maxmem are used, the last one used controls.  The default is 1024
                     kilobytes.

              mindepth count
                     Lower limit on the MRU list size.  When the MRU list has fewer than mindepth entries, existing entries are never removed to make room for newer ones, regardless  of
                     their age.  The default is 600 entries.

              maxage seconds
                     Once the MRU list has mindepth entries and an additional client is to ba added to the list, if the oldest entry was updated more than maxage seconds ago, that entry
                     is removed and its storage is reused.  If the oldest entry was updated more recently the MRU list is grown, subject to maxdepth / moxmem.  The default  is  64  sec-
                     onds.

              initalloc count

              initmem kilobytes
                     Initial memory allocation at the time the monitoringfacility is first enabled, in terms of the number of entries or kilobytes.  The default is 4 kilobytes.

              incalloc count

              incmem kilobytes
                     Size of additional memory allocations when growing the MRU list, in entries or kilobytes.  The default is 4 kilobytes.

       nonvolatile threshold
              Specify  the  threshold  delta in seconds before an hourly change to the driftfile (frequency file) will be written, with a default value of 1e-7 (0.1 PPM).  The frequency
              file is inspected each hour.  If the difference between the current frequency and the last value written exceeds the threshold, the  file  is  written  and  the  threshold
              becomes the new threshold value.  If the threshold is not exceeeded, it is reduced by half.  This is intended to reduce the number of file writes for embedded systems with
              nonvolatile memory.

       phone dial ...
              This command is used in conjunction with the ACTS modem driver (type 18) or the JJY driver (type 40, mode 100 - 180).  For the ACTS modem driver (type 18),  the  arguments
              consist of a maximum of 10 telephone numbers used to dial USNO, NIST, or European time service.  For the JJY driver (type 40 mode 100 - 180), the argument is one telephone
              number used to dial the telephone JJY service.  The Hayes command ATDT is normally prepended to the number.  The number can contain other modem control codes as well.

       reset [allpeers] [auth] [ctl] [io] [mem] [sys] [timer]
              Reset one or more groups of counters maintained by ntpd and exposed by ntpq and ntpdc.

       rlimit [memlock Nmegabytes | stacksize N4kPages filenum Nfiledescriptors]

              memlock Nmegabytes
                     Specify the number of megabytes of memory that should be allocated and locked.  Probably only available under Linux, this option may be useful  when  dropping  root
                     (the  -i  option).   The default is 32 megabytes on non-Linux machines, and -1 under Linux.  -1 means "do not lock the process into memory".  0 means "lock whatever
                     memory the process wants into memory".

              stacksize N4kPages
                     Specifies the maximum size of the process stack on systems with the mlockall() function.  Defaults to 50 4k pages (200 4k pages in OpenBSD).

              filenum Nfiledescriptors
                     Specifies the maximum number of file descriptors ntpd may have open at once.  Defaults to the system default.

       saveconfigdir directory_path
              Specify the directory in which to write configuration snapshots requested with saveconfig command.  If saveconfigdir does not appear in the configuration file,  saveconfig
              requests are rejected by ntpd.

       saveconfig filename
              Write the current configuration, including any runtime modifications given with :config or config-from-file to the ntpd host's filename in the saveconfigdir.  This command
              will be rejected unless the saveconfigdir directive appears in configuration file.  filename can use strftime(3) format directives to substitute the current date and time,
              for example, saveconfig ntp-%Y%m%d-%H%M%S.conf.  The filename used is stored in the system variable savedconfig.  Authentication is required.

       setvar variable [default]
              This  command adds an additional system variable.  These variables can be used to distribute additional information such as the access policy.  If the variable of the form
              name=value is followed by the default keyword, the variable will be listed as part of the default system variables (ntpq(8) rv command)).  These additional variables serve
              informational  purposes only.  They are not related to the protocol other that they can be listed.  The known protocol variables will always override any variables defined
              via the setvar mechanism.  There are three special variables that contain the names of all variable of the same group.  The sys_var_list holds  the  names  of  all  system
              variables.  The peer_var_list holds the names of all peer variables and the clock_var_list holds the names of the reference clock variables.

       sysinfo
              Display operational summary.

       sysstats
              Show statistics counters maintained in the protocol module.

       tinker [allan allan | dispersion dispersion | freq freq | huffpuff huffpuff | panic panic | step step | stepback stepback | stepfwd stepfwd | stepout stepout]
              This  command  can  be  used to alter several system variables in very exceptional circumstances.  It should occur in the configuration file before any other configuration
              options.  The default values of these variables have been carefully optimized for a wide range of network speeds and reliability expectations.  In general,  they  interact
              in  intricate  ways  that are hard to predict and some combinations can result in some very nasty behavior.  Very rarely is it necessary to change the default values; but,
              some folks cannot resist twisting the knobs anyway and this command is for them.  Emphasis added: twisters are on their own and can expect no help from the support group.

              The variables operate as follows:

              allan allan
                     The argument becomes the new value for the minimum Allan intercept, which is a parameter of the PLL/FLL clock discipline  algorithm.   The  value  in  log2  seconds
                     defaults to 7 (1024 s), which is also the lower limit.

              dispersion dispersion
                     The argument becomes the new value for the dispersion increase rate, normally .000015 s/s.

              freq freq
                     The  argument  becomes  the  initial value of the frequency offset in parts-per-million.  This overrides the value in the frequency file, if present, and avoids the
                     initial training state if it is not.

              huffpuff huffpuff
                     The argument becomes the new value for the experimental huff-n'-puff filter span, which determines the most recent interval the algorithm will search for a  minimum
                     delay.  The lower limit is 900 s (15 m), but a more reasonable value is 7200 (2 hours).  There is no default, since the filter is not enabled unless this command is
                     given.

              panic panic
                     The argument is the panic threshold, normally 1000 s.  If set to zero, the panic sanity check is disabled and a clock offset of any value will be accepted.

              step step
                     The argument is the step threshold, which by default is 0.128 s.  It can be set to any positive number in seconds.  If set to  zero,  step  adjustments  will  never
                     occur.  Note: The kernel time discipline is disabled if the step threshold is set to zero or greater than the default.

              stepback stepback
                     The  argument  is the step threshold for the backward direction, which by default is 0.128 s.  It can be set to any positive number in seconds.  If both the forward
                     and backward step thresholds are set to zero, step adjustments will never occur.  Note: The kernel time discipline is disabled if each direction of  step  threshold
                     are either set to zero or greater than .5 second.

              stepfwd stepfwd
                     As for stepback, but for the forward direction.

              stepout stepout
                     The  argument  is  the stepout timeout, which by default is 900 s.  It can be set to any positive number in seconds.  If set to zero, the stepout pulses will not be
                     suppressed.

       writevar assocID name = value [,...]
              Write (create or update) the specified variables.  If the assocID is zero, the variablea re from the system variables name space, otherwise they are from  the  peer  vari-
              ables name space.  The assocID is required, as the same name can occur in both name spaces.

       trap host_address [port port_number] [interface interface_address]
              This  command  configures a trap receiver at the given host address and port number for sending messages with the specified local interface address.  If the port number is
              unspecified, a value of 18447 is used.  If the interface address is not specified, the message is sent with a source address of the local interface  the  message  is  sent
              through.  Note that on a multihomed host the interface used may vary from time to time with routing changes.

       ttl hop ...
              This  command  specifies  a  list of TTL values in increasing order.  Up to 8 values can be specified.  In manycast mode these values are used in-turn in an expanding-ring
              search.  The default is eight multiples of 32 starting at 31.

              The trap receiver will generally log event messages and other information from the server in a log file.  While such monitor programs  may  also  request  their  own  trap
              dynamically, configuring a trap receiver will ensure that no messages are lost when the server is started.

       hop ...
              This  command  specifies  a  list  of TTL values in increasing order, up to 8 values can be specified.  In manycast mode these values are used in turn in an expanding-ring
              search.  The default is eight multiples of 32 starting at 31.

