OPTIONS
       --strict
              Uses strict matching when running flow modification commands.

       --names
       --no-names
              Every OpenFlow port has a name and a number, and every OpenFlow flow table has a number and sometimes a name.  By default, ovs-ofctl commands accept both  port  and  table
              names  and  numbers,  and  they  display  port and table names if ovs-ofctl is running on an interactive console, numbers otherwise.  With --names, ovs-ofctl commands both
              accept and display port and table names; with --no-names, commands neither accept nor display port and table names.

              If a port or table name contains special characters or might be confused with a keyword within a flow, it may be enclosed in double quotes (escaped from  the  shell).   If
              necessary, JSON-style escape sequences may be used inside quotes, as specified in RFC 7159.  When it displays port and table names, ovs-ofctl quotes any name that does not
              start with a letter followed by letters or digits.

              Open vSwitch added support for port names and these options.  Open vSwitch 2.10 added support for table names.  Earlier versions always behaved as if --no-names were spec-
              ified.

              Open  vSwitch  does  not  place  its  own limit on the length of port names, but OpenFlow 1.0 to 1.5 limit port names to 15 bytes and OpenFlow 1.6 limits them to 63 bytes.
              Because ovs-ofctl uses OpenFlow to retrieve the mapping between port names and numbers, names longer than this limit will be truncated for  both  display  and  acceptance.
              Truncation  can also cause long names that are different to appear to be the same; when a switch has two ports with the same (truncated) name, ovs-ofctl refuses to display
              or accept the name, using the number instead.

              OpenFlow and Open vSwitch limit table names to 32 bytes.

       --stats
       --no-stats
              The dump-flows command by default, or with --stats, includes flow duration, packet and byte counts, and idle and hard age in its output.  With --no-stats, it omits all  of
              these, as well as cookie values and table IDs if they are zero.

       --read-only
              Do not execute read/write commands.

       --bundle
              Execute flow mods as an OpenFlow 1.4 atomic bundle transaction.

              ·      Within  a  bundle, all flow mods are processed in the order they appear and as a single atomic transaction, meaning that if one of them fails, the whole transaction
                     fails and none of the changes are made to the switch's flow table, and that each given datapath packet traversing the OpenFlow tables sees the flow tables either as
                     before the transaction, or after all the flow mods in the bundle have been successfully applied.

              ·      The  beginning  and  the end of the flow table modification commands in a bundle are delimited with OpenFlow 1.4 bundle control messages, which makes it possible to
                     stream the included commands without explicit OpenFlow barriers, which are otherwise used after each flow table modification command.  This may make large modifica-
                     tions execute faster as a bundle.

              ·      Bundles  require  OpenFlow  1.4  or  higher.  An explicit -O OpenFlow14 option is not needed, but you may need to enable OpenFlow 1.4 support for OVS by setting the
                     OVSDB protocols column in the bridge table.

       -O [version[,version]...]
       --protocols=[version[,version]...]
              Sets the OpenFlow protocol versions that are allowed when establishing an OpenFlow session.

              These protocol versions are enabled by default:

              ·      OpenFlow10, for OpenFlow 1.0.
       The following protocol versions are generally supported, but for compatibility with older versions of Open vSwitch they are not enabled by default:

              ·      OpenFlow11, for OpenFlow 1.1.

              ·      OpenFlow12, for OpenFlow 1.2.

              ·      OpenFlow13, for OpenFlow 1.3.

              ·      OpenFlow14, for OpenFlow 1.4.

              Support for the following protocol versions is provided for testing and development purposes.  They are not enabled by default:

              ·      OpenFlow15, for OpenFlow 1.5.

              ·      OpenFlow16, for OpenFlow 1.6.

       -F format[,format...]
       --flow-format=format[,format...]
              ovs-ofctl supports the following individual flow formats, any number of which may be listed as format:

              OpenFlow10-table_id
                     This is the standard OpenFlow 1.0 flow format.  All OpenFlow switches and all versions of Open vSwitch support this flow format.

              OpenFlow10+table_id
                     This is the standard OpenFlow 1.0 flow format plus a Nicira extension that allows ovs-ofctl to specify the flow table in which a particular flow should  be  placed.
                     Open vSwitch 1.2 and later supports this flow format.

              NXM-table_id (Nicira Extended Match)
                     This  Nicira  extension  to OpenFlow is flexible and extensible.  It supports all of the Nicira flow extensions, such as tun_id and registers.  Open vSwitch 1.1 and
                     later supports this flow format.

              NXM+table_id (Nicira Extended Match)
                     This combines Nicira Extended match with the ability to place a flow in a specific table.  Open vSwitch 1.2 and later supports this flow format.

              OXM-OpenFlow12
              OXM-OpenFlow13
              OXM-OpenFlow14
              OXM-OpenFlow15
              OXM-OpenFlow16
                     These are the standard OXM (OpenFlow Extensible Match) flow format in OpenFlow 1.2 and later.

              ovs-ofctl also supports the following abbreviations for collections of flow formats:

              any    Any supported flow format.

              OpenFlow10
                     OpenFlow10-table_id or OpenFlow10+table_id.

              NXM    NXM-table_id or NXM+table_id.

              OXM    OXM-OpenFlow12, OXM-OpenFlow13, or OXM-OpenFlow14.

              For commands that modify the flow table, ovs-ofctl by default negotiates the most widely supported flow format that supports the flows  being  added.   For  commands  that
              query the flow table, ovs-ofctl by default uses the most advanced format supported by the switch.

              This  option,  where  format  is  a comma-separated list of one or more of the formats listed above, limits ovs-ofctl's choice of flow format.  If a command cannot work as
              requested using one of the specified flow formats, ovs-ofctl will report a fatal error.

       -P format
       --packet-in-format=format
              ovs-ofctl supports the following ``packet-in'' formats, in order of increasing capability:

              standard
                     This uses the OFPT_PACKET_IN message, the standard ``packet-in'' message for any given OpenFlow version.  Every OpenFlow switch that supports a given OpenFlow  ver-
                     sion supports this format.

              nxt_packet_in
                     This  uses  the  NXT_PACKET_IN message, which adds many of the capabilities of the OpenFlow 1.1 and later ``packet-in'' messages before those OpenFlow versions were
                     available in Open vSwitch.  Open vSwitch 1.1 and later support this format.  Only Open vSwitch 2.6 and later, however, support it for OpenFlow 1.1  and  later  (but
                     there is little reason to use it with those versions of OpenFlow).

              nxt_packet_in2
                     This  uses the NXT_PACKET_IN2 message, which is extensible and should avoid the need to define new formats later.  In particular, this format supports passing arbi-
                     trary user-provided data to a controller using the userdata option on the controller action.  Open vSwitch 2.6 and later support this format.

              Without this option, ovs-ofctl prefers nxt_packet_in2 if the switch supports it.  Otherwise, if OpenFlow 1.0 is in use, ovs-ofctl prefers nxt_packet_in if the switch  sup-
              ports  it.  Otherwise, ovs-ofctl falls back to the standard packet-in format.  When this option is specified, ovs-ofctl insists on the selected format.  If the switch does
              not support the requested format, ovs-ofctl will report a fatal error.

              Before version 2.6, Open vSwitch called standard format openflow10 and nxt_packet_in format nxm, and ovs-ofctl still accepts these names as synonyms.  (The name openflow10
              was  a  misnomer  because this format actually varies from one OpenFlow version to another; it is not consistently OpenFlow 1.0 format.  Similarly, when nxt_packet_in2 was
              introduced, the name nxm became confusing because it also uses OXM/NXM.)

              This option affects only the monitor command.

       --timestamp
              Print a timestamp before each received packet.  This option only affects the monitor, snoop, and ofp-parse-pcap commands.

       -m
       --more Increases the verbosity of OpenFlow messages printed and logged by ovs-ofctl commands.  Specify this option more than once to increase verbosity further.

       --sort[=field]
       --rsort[=field]
              Display output sorted by flow field in ascending (--sort) or descending (--rsort) order, where field is any of the fields that are allowed for matching or priority to sort
              by priority.  When field is omitted, the output is sorted by priority.  Specify these options multiple times to sort by multiple fields.

              Any given flow will not necessarily specify a value for a given field.  This requires special treatement:

              ·      A flow that does not specify any part of a field that is used for sorting is sorted after all the flows that do specify the field.  For example, --sort=tcp_src will
                     sort all the flows that specify a TCP source port in ascending order, followed by the flows that do not specify a TCP source port at all.

              ·      A flow that only specifies some bits in a field is sorted as if the wildcarded bits were zero.   For  example,  --sort=nw_src  would  sort  a  flow  that  specifies
                     nw_src=192.168.0.0/24 the same as nw_src=192.168.0.0.

              These options currently affect only dump-flows output.

   Daemon Options
       The following options are valid on POSIX based platforms.

       --pidfile[=pidfile]
              Causes  a file (by default, ovs-ofctl.pid) to be created indicating the PID of the running process.  If the pidfile argument is not specified, or if it does not begin with
              /, then it is created in /var/run/openvswitch.

              If --pidfile is not specified, no pidfile is created.

       --overwrite-pidfile
              By default, when --pidfile is specified and the specified pidfile already exists and is locked by a running process, ovs-ofctl refuses to start.  Specify  --overwrite-pid-
              file to cause it to instead overwrite the pidfile.

              When --pidfile is not specified, this option has no effect.

       --detach
              Runs  ovs-ofctl  as  a background process.  The process forks, and in the child it starts a new session, closes the standard file descriptors (which has the side effect of
              disabling logging to the console), and changes its current directory to the root (unless --no-chdir is specified).  After the child completes its initialization, the  par-
              ent exits.  ovs-ofctl detaches only when executing the monitor or snoop commands.

       --monitor
              Creates  an  additional  process to monitor the ovs-ofctl daemon.  If the daemon dies due to a signal that indicates a programming error (SIGABRT, SIGALRM, SIGBUS, SIGFPE,
              SIGILL, SIGPIPE, SIGSEGV, SIGXCPU, or SIGXFSZ) then the monitor process starts a new copy of it.  If the daemon dies or exits  for  another  reason,  the  monitor  process
              exits.

              This option is normally used with --detach, but it also functions without it.

       --no-chdir
              By  default,  when  --detach  is  specified, ovs-ofctl changes its current working directory to the root directory after it detaches.  Otherwise, invoking ovs-ofctl from a
              carelessly chosen directory would prevent the administrator from unmounting the file system that holds that directory.

              Specifying --no-chdir suppresses this behavior, preventing ovs-ofctl from changing its current working directory.  This may be useful for collecting core files,  since  it
              is common behavior to write core dumps into the current working directory and the root directory is not a good directory to use.

              This option has no effect when --detach is not specified.

       --no-self-confinement
              By  default  daemon  will  try  to  self-confine itself to work with files under well-know, at build-time whitelisted directories.  It is better to stick with this default
              behavior and not to use this flag unless some other Access Control is used to confine daemon.  Note that in contrast to other access control implementations that are typi-
              cally  enforced from kernel-space (e.g. DAC or MAC), self-confinement is imposed from the user-space daemon itself and hence should not be considered as a full confinement
              strategy, but instead should be viewed as an additional layer of security.

       --user Causes ovs-ofctl to run as a different user specified in "user:group", thus dropping most of the root privileges. Short forms "user" and ":group" are  also  allowed,  with
              current user or group are assumed respectively. Only daemons started by the root user accepts this argument.

              On Linux, daemons will be granted CAP_IPC_LOCK and CAP_NET_BIND_SERVICES before dropping root privileges. Daemons that interact with a datapath, such as ovs-vswitchd, will
              be granted three additional capabilities, namely CAP_NET_ADMIN, CAP_NET_BROADCAST and CAP_NET_RAW.  The capability change will apply even if the new user is root.

              On Windows, this option is not currently supported. For security reasons, specifying this option will cause the daemon process not to start.

       --unixctl=socket
              Sets the name of the control socket on which ovs-ofctl listens for runtime management commands (see RUNTIME MANAGEMENT COMMANDS, below).  If socket does not begin with  /,
              it  is  interpreted  as  relative  to  /var/run/openvswitch.   If  --unixctl is not used at all, the default socket is /var/run/openvswitch/ovs-ofctl.pid.ctl, where pid is
              ovs-ofctl's process ID.

              On Windows a local named pipe is used to listen for runtime management commands.  A file is created in the absolute path as pointed by socket or if --unixctl is  not  used
              at all, a file is created as ovs-ofctl.ctl in the configured OVS_RUNDIR directory.  The file exists just to mimic the behavior of a Unix domain socket.

              Specifying none for socket disables the control socket feature.

   Public Key Infrastructure Options
       -p privkey.pem
       --private-key=privkey.pem
              Specifies a PEM file containing the private key used as ovs-ofctl's identity for outgoing SSL connections.

       -c cert.pem
       --certificate=cert.pem
              Specifies  a  PEM  file  containing a certificate that certifies the private key specified on -p or --private-key to be trustworthy.  The certificate must be signed by the
              certificate authority (CA) that the peer in SSL connections will use to verify it.

       -C cacert.pem
       --ca-cert=cacert.pem
              Specifies a PEM file containing the CA certificate that ovs-ofctl should use to verify certificates presented to it by SSL peers.  (This may be the same  certificate  that
              SSL peers use to verify the certificate specified on -c or --certificate, or it may be a different one, depending on the PKI design in use.)

       -C none
       --ca-cert=none
              Disables  verification of certificates presented by SSL peers.  This introduces a security risk, because it means that certificates cannot be verified to be those of known
              trusted hosts.

       -v[spec]
       --verbose=[spec]
              Sets logging levels.  Without any spec, sets the log level for every module and destination to dbg.  Otherwise, spec is a list of words separated by spaces  or  commas  or
              colons, up to one from each category below:

              ·      A valid module name, as displayed by the vlog/list command on ovs-appctl(8), limits the log level change to the specified module.

              ·      syslog, console, or file, to limit the log level change to only to the system log, to the console, or to a file, respectively.  (If --detach is specified, ovs-ofctl
                     closes its standard file descriptors, so logging to the console will have no effect.)

                     On Windows platform, syslog is accepted as a word and is only useful along with the --syslog-target option (the word has no effect otherwise).

              ·      off, emer, err, warn, info, or dbg, to control the log level.  Messages of the given severity or higher will be logged, and messages of lower severity will be  fil-
                     tered out.  off filters out all messages.  See ovs-appctl(8) for a definition of each log level.

              Case is not significant within spec.

              Regardless of the log levels set for file, logging to a file will not take place unless --log-file is also specified (see below).

              For compatibility with older versions of OVS, any is accepted as a word but has no effect.

       -v
       --verbose
              Sets the maximum logging verbosity level, equivalent to --verbose=dbg.

       -vPATTERN:destination:pattern
       --verbose=PATTERN:destination:pattern
              Sets the log pattern for destination to pattern.  Refer to ovs-appctl(8) for a description of the valid syntax for pattern.

       -vFACILITY:facility
       --verbose=FACILITY:facility
              Sets  the  RFC5424  facility  of  the  log  message. facility can be one of kern, user, mail, daemon, auth, syslog, lpr, news, uucp, clock, ftp, ntp, audit, alert, clock2,
              local0, local1, local2, local3, local4, local5, local6 or local7. If this option is not specified, daemon is used as the default for the local system syslog and local0  is
              used while sending a message to the target provided via the --syslog-target option.

       --log-file[=file]
              Enables  logging to a file.  If file is specified, then it is used as the exact name for the log file.  The default log file name used if file is omitted is /var/log/open-
              vswitch/ovs-ofctl.log.

       --syslog-target=host:port
              Send syslog messages to UDP port on host, in addition to the system syslog.  The host must be a numerical IP address, not a hostname.

       --syslog-method=method
              Specify method how syslog messages should be sent to syslog daemon.  Following forms are supported:

              ·      libc, use libc syslog() function.  This is the default behavior.  Downside of using this options is that libc adds fixed prefix to every message before it is  actu-
                     ally sent to the syslog daemon over /dev/log UNIX domain socket.

              ·      unix:file, use UNIX domain socket directly.  It is possible to specify arbitrary message format with this option.  However, rsyslogd 8.9 and older versions use hard
                     coded parser function anyway that limits UNIX domain socket use.  If you want to use arbitrary message format with older rsyslogd versions, then use UDP  socket  to
                     localhost IP address instead.

              ·      udp:ip:port,  use  UDP  socket.   With  this  method it is possible to use arbitrary message format also with older rsyslogd.  When sending syslog messages over UDP
                     socket extra precaution needs to be taken into account, for example, syslog daemon needs to be configured to listen on the specified UDP port,  accidental  iptables
                     rules could be interfering with local syslog traffic and there are some security considerations that apply to UDP sockets, but do not apply to UNIX domain sockets.

       --color[=when]
              Colorize the output (for some commands); when can be never, always, or auto (the default).

              Only some commands support output coloring.  Color names and default colors may change in future releases.

              The  environment  variable OVS_COLORS can be used to specify user-defined colors and other attributes used to highlight various parts of the output. If set, its value is a
              colon-separated list of capabilities that defaults to ac:01;31:dr=34:le=31:pm=36:pr=35:sp=33:vl=32. Supported capabilities were initially designed for coloring flows  from
              ovs-ofctl dump-flows switch command, and they are as follows.

                     ac=01;31
                            SGR substring for actions= keyword in a flow.  The default is a bold red text foreground.

                     dr=34  SGR substring for drop keyword.  The default is a dark blue text foreground.

                     le=31  SGR substring for learn= keyword in a flow.  The default is a red text foreground.

                     pm=36  SGR substring for flow match attribute names.  The default is a cyan text foreground.

                     pr=35  SGR substring for keywords in a flow that are followed by arguments inside parenthesis.  The default is a magenta text foreground.

                     sp=33  SGR  substring for some special keywords in a flow, notably: table=, priority=, load:, output:, move:, group:, CONTROLLER:, set_field:, resubmit:, exit.  The
                            default is a yellow text foreground.

                     vl=32  SGR substring for a lone flow match attribute with no field name.  The default is a green text foreground.

              See the Select Graphic Rendition (SGR) section in the documentation of the text terminal that is used for permitted values and their meaning as character attributes.

       -h
       --help Prints a brief help message to the console.

       -V
       --version
              Prints version information to the console.

