       TPM device options

       The general form of a TPM device option is:

       -tpmdev backend,id=id[,options]
           The specific backend type will determine the applicable options.  The "-tpmdev" option creates the TPM backend and requires a "-device" option that specifies the TPM frontend
           interface model.

           Use "-tpmdev help" to print all available TPM backend types.

       The available backends are:

       -tpmdev passthrough,id=id,path=path,cancel-path=cancel-path
           (Linux-host only) Enable access to the host's TPM using the passthrough driver.

           path specifies the path to the host's TPM device, i.e., on a Linux host this would be "/dev/tpm0".  path is optional and by default "/dev/tpm0" is used.

           cancel-path specifies the path to the host TPM device's sysfs entry allowing for cancellation of an ongoing TPM command.  cancel-path is optional and by default QEMU will
           search for the sysfs entry to use.

           Some notes about using the host's TPM with the passthrough driver:

           The TPM device accessed by the passthrough driver must not be used by any other application on the host.

           Since the host's firmware (BIOS/UEFI) has already initialized the TPM, the VM's firmware (BIOS/UEFI) will not be able to initialize the TPM again and may therefore not show a
           TPM-specific menu that would otherwise allow the user to configure the TPM, e.g., allow the user to enable/disable or activate/deactivate the TPM.  Further, if TPM ownership
           is released from within a VM then the host's TPM will get disabled and deactivated. To enable and activate the TPM again afterwards, the host has to be rebooted and the user
           is required to enter the firmware's menu to enable and activate the TPM.  If the TPM is left disabled and/or deactivated most TPM commands will fail.

           To create a passthrough TPM use the following two options:

                   -tpmdev passthrough,id=tpm0 -device tpm-tis,tpmdev=tpm0

           Note that the "-tpmdev" id is "tpm0" and is referenced by "tpmdev=tpm0" in the device option.

       -tpmdev emulator,id=id,chardev=dev
           (Linux-host only) Enable access to a TPM emulator using Unix domain socket based chardev backend.

           chardev specifies the unique ID of a character device backend that provides connection to the software TPM server.

           To create a TPM emulator backend device with chardev socket backend:

                   -chardev socket,id=chrtpm,path=/tmp/swtpm-sock -tpmdev emulator,id=tpm0,chardev=chrtpm -device tpm-tis,tpmdev=tpm0

       Linux/Multiboot boot specific

       When using these options, you can use a given Linux or Multiboot kernel without installing it in the disk image. It can be useful for easier testing of various kernels.

       -kernel bzImage
           Use bzImage as kernel image. The kernel can be either a Linux kernel or in multiboot format.

       -append cmdline
           Use cmdline as kernel command line

       -initrd file
           Use file as initial ram disk.

       -initrd "file1 arg=foo,file2"
           This syntax is only available with multiboot.

           Use file1 and file2 as modules and pass arg=foo as parameter to the first module.

       -dtb file
           Use file as a device tree binary (dtb) image and pass it to the kernel on boot.

