OPTIONS
Options for selecting a mode are:
       -A, --assemble
              Assemble a pre-existing array.

       -B, --build
              Build a legacy array without superblocks.

       -C, --create
              Create a new array.

       -F, --follow, --monitor
              Select Monitor mode.

       -G, --grow
              Change the size or shape of an active array.

       -I, --incremental
              Add/remove a single device to/from an appropriate array, and possibly start the array.

       --auto-detect
              Request  that  the  kernel starts any auto-detected arrays.  This can only work if md is compiled into the kernel -- not if it is a module.  Arrays can be auto-detected by
              the kernel if all the components are in primary MS-DOS partitions with partition type FD, and all use v0.90 metadata.  In-kernel autodetect is not recommended for new in-
              stallations.  Using mdadm to detect and assemble arrays -- possibly in an initrd -- is substantially more flexible and should be preferred.

       If  a  device  is given before any options, or if the first option is one of --add, --re-add, --add-spare, --fail, --remove, or --replace, then the MANAGE mode is assumed.  Any-
       thing other than these will cause the Misc mode to be assumed.

Options that are not mode-specific are:
       -h, --help
              Display general help message or, after one of the above options, a mode-specific help message.

       --help-options
              Display more detailed help about command line parsing and some commonly used options.

       -V, --version
              Print version information for mdadm.

       -v, --verbose
              Be more verbose about what is happening.  This can be used twice to be extra-verbose.  The extra verbosity currently only affects --detail --scan and --examine --scan.

       -q, --quiet
              Avoid printing purely informative messages.  With this, mdadm will be silent unless there is something really important to report.

       -f, --force
              Be more forceful about certain operations.  See the various modes for the exact meaning of this option in different contexts.

       -c, --config=
              Specify  the  config  file  or  directory.   Default  is  to  use  /etc/mdadm.conf  and  /etc/mdadm.conf.d,  or  if  those  are  missing  then  /etc/mdadm/mdadm.conf  and
              /etc/mdadm/mdadm.conf.d.  If the config file given is partitions then nothing will be read, but mdadm will act as though the config file contained exactly
                  DEVICE partitions containers
              and  will  read  /proc/partitions  to  find a list of devices to scan, and /proc/mdstat to find a list of containers to examine.  If the word none is given for the config
              file, then mdadm will act as though the config file were empty.

              If the name given is of a directory, then mdadm will collect all the files contained in the directory with a name ending in .conf, sort them lexically, and process all of
              those files as config files.

       -s, --scan
              Scan  config  file  or /proc/mdstat for missing information.  In general, this option gives mdadm permission to get any missing information (like component devices, array
              devices, array identities, and alert destination) from the configuration file (see previous option); one exception is MISC mode when using --detail or  --stop,  in  which
              case --scan says to get a list of array devices from /proc/mdstat.

       -e, --metadata=
              Declare the style of RAID metadata (superblock) to be used.  The default is 1.2 for --create, and to guess for other operations.  The default can be overridden by setting
              the metadata value for the CREATE keyword in mdadm.conf.

              Options are:

              0, 0.90
                     Use the original 0.90 format superblock.  This format limits arrays to 28 component devices and limits component devices of levels 1 and greater  to  2  terabytes.
                     It  is also possible for there to be confusion about whether the superblock applies to a whole device or just the last partition, if that partition starts on a 64K
                     boundary.

              1, 1.0, 1.1, 1.2 default
                     Use the new version-1 format superblock.  This has fewer restrictions.  It can easily be moved between hosts with different endian-ness, and a  recovery  operation
                     can be checkpointed and restarted.  The different sub-versions store the superblock at different locations on the device, either at the end (for 1.0), at the start
                     (for 1.1) or 4K from the start (for 1.2).  "1" is equivalent to "1.2" (the commonly preferred 1.x format).  "default" is equivalent to "1.2".

              ddf    Use the "Industry Standard" DDF (Disk Data Format) format defined by SNIA.  When creating a DDF array a CONTAINER will be created, and normal arrays can be created
                     in that container.

              imsm   Use  the  Intel(R) Matrix Storage Manager metadata format.  This creates a CONTAINER which is managed in a similar manner to DDF, and is supported by an option-rom
                     on some platforms:

                     http://www.intel.com/design/chipsets/matrixstorage_sb.htm

       --homehost=
              This will override any HOMEHOST setting in the config file and provides the identity of the host which should be considered the home for any arrays.

              When creating an array, the homehost will be recorded in the metadata.  For version-1 superblocks, it will be prefixed to the array name.  For  version-0.90  superblocks,
              part of the SHA1 hash of the hostname will be stored in the later half of the UUID.

              When reporting information about an array, any array which is tagged for the given homehost will be reported as such.

              When  using  Auto-Assemble, only arrays tagged for the given homehost will be allowed to use 'local' names (i.e. not ending in '_' followed by a digit string).  See below
              under Auto Assembly.

              The special name "any" can be used as a wild card.  If an array is created with --homehost=any then the name "any" will be stored in the array and it can be assembled  in
              the same way on any host.  If an array is assembled with this option, then the homehost recorded on the array will be ignored.

       --prefer=
              When mdadm needs to print the name for a device it normally finds the name in /dev which refers to the device and is shortest.  When a path component is given with --pre-
              fer mdadm will prefer a longer name if it contains that component.  For example --prefer=by-uuid will prefer a name in a subdirectory of /dev called by-uuid.

              This functionality is currently only provided by --detail and --monitor.

       --home-cluster=
              specifies the cluster name for the md device. The md device can be assembled only on the cluster which matches the name specified. If this option is not  provided,  mdadm
              tries to detect the cluster name automatically.

For create, build, or grow:
       -n, --raid-devices=
              Specify the number of active devices in the array.  This, plus the number of spare devices (see below) must equal the number of component-devices (including "missing" de-
              vices) that are listed on the command line for --create.  Setting a value of 1 is probably a mistake and so requires that --force be specified first.  A value of  1  will
              then be allowed for linear, multipath, RAID0 and RAID1.  It is never allowed for RAID4, RAID5 or RAID6.
              This number can only be changed using --grow for RAID1, RAID4, RAID5 and RAID6 arrays, and only on kernels which provide the necessary support.

       -x, --spare-devices=
              Specify the number of spare (eXtra) devices in the initial array.  Spares can also be added and removed later.  The number of component devices listed on the command line
              must equal the number of RAID devices plus the number of spare devices.

       -z, --size=
              Amount (in Kilobytes) of space to use from each drive in RAID levels 1/4/5/6.  This must be a multiple of the chunk size, and must leave about 128Kb of space at  the  end
              of  the  drive  for  the RAID superblock.  If this is not specified (as it normally is not) the smallest drive (or partition) sets the size, though if there is a variance
              among the drives of greater than 1%, a warning is issued.

              A suffix of 'K', 'M' or 'G' can be given to indicate Kilobytes, Megabytes or Gigabytes respectively.

              Sometimes a replacement drive can be a little smaller than the original drives though this should be minimised by IDEMA standards.  Such a replacement drive will  be  re-
              jected  by md.  To guard against this it can be useful to set the initial size slightly smaller than the smaller device with the aim that it will still be larger than any
              replacement.

              This value can be set with --grow for RAID level 1/4/5/6 though CONTAINER based arrays such as those with IMSM metadata may not be able to support this.  If the array was
              created  with  a  size  smaller  than  the  currently active drives, the extra space can be accessed using --grow.  The size can be given as max which means to choose the
              largest size that fits on all current drives.

              Before reducing the size of the array (with --grow --size=) you should make sure that space isn't needed.  If the device holds a filesystem, you would need to resize  the
              filesystem to use less space.

              After  reducing the array size you should check that the data stored in the device is still available.  If the device holds a filesystem, then an 'fsck' of the filesystem
              is a minimum requirement.  If there are problems the array can be made bigger again with no loss with another --grow --size= command.

              This value cannot be used when creating a CONTAINER such as with DDF and IMSM metadata, though it perfectly valid when creating an array inside a container.

       -Z, --array-size=
              This is only meaningful with --grow and its effect is not persistent: when the array is stopped and restarted the default array size will be restored.

              Setting the array-size causes the array to appear smaller to programs that access the data.  This is particularly needed before reshaping an array  so  that  it  will  be
              smaller.   As  the reshape is not reversible, but setting the size with --array-size is, it is required that the array size is reduced as appropriate before the number of
              devices in the array is reduced.

              Before reducing the size of the array you should make sure that space isn't needed.  If the device holds a filesystem, you would need to resize the filesystem to use less
              space.

              After  reducing the array size you should check that the data stored in the device is still available.  If the device holds a filesystem, then an 'fsck' of the filesystem
              is a minimum requirement.  If there are problems the array can be made bigger again with no loss with another --grow --array-size= command.

              A suffix of 'K', 'M' or 'G' can be given to indicate Kilobytes, Megabytes or Gigabytes respectively.  A value of max restores the apparent size of the array to  be  what-
              ever the real amount of available space is.

              Clustered arrays do not support this parameter yet.

       -c, --chunk=
              Specify  chunk size of kilobytes.  The default when creating an array is 512KB.  To ensure compatibility with earlier versions, the default when building an array with no
              persistent metadata is 64KB.  This is only meaningful for RAID0, RAID4, RAID5, RAID6, and RAID10.

              RAID4, RAID5, RAID6, and RAID10 require the chunk size to be a power of 2.  In any case it must be a multiple of 4KB.

              A suffix of 'K', 'M' or 'G' can be given to indicate Kilobytes, Megabytes or Gigabytes respectively.

       --rounding=
              Specify rounding factor for a Linear array.  The size of each component will be rounded down to a multiple of this size.  This is a synonym for --chunk but highlights the
              different  meaning  for Linear as compared to other RAID levels.  The default is 64K if a kernel earlier than 2.6.16 is in use, and is 0K (i.e. no rounding) in later ker-
              nels.

       -l, --level=
              Set RAID level.  When used with --create, options are: linear, raid0, 0, stripe, raid1, 1, mirror, raid4, 4, raid5, 5, raid6, 6, raid10, 10, multipath, mp,  faulty,  con-
              tainer.  Obviously some of these are synonymous.

              When a CONTAINER metadata type is requested, only the container level is permitted, and it does not need to be explicitly given.

              When used with --build, only linear, stripe, raid0, 0, raid1, multipath, mp, and faulty are valid.

              Can be used with --grow to change the RAID level in some cases.  See LEVEL CHANGES below.

       -p, --layout=
              This option configures the fine details of data layout for RAID5, RAID6, and RAID10 arrays, and controls the failure modes for faulty.

              The layout of the RAID5 parity block can be one of left-asymmetric, left-symmetric, right-asymmetric, right-symmetric, la, ra, ls, rs.  The default is left-symmetric.

              It is also possible to cause RAID5 to use a RAID4-like layout by choosing parity-first, or parity-last.

              Finally for RAID5 there are DDF-compatible layouts, ddf-zero-restart, ddf-N-restart, and ddf-N-continue.

              These  same  layouts  are  available for RAID6.  There are also 4 layouts that will provide an intermediate stage for converting between RAID5 and RAID6.  These provide a
              layout which is identical to the corresponding RAID5 layout on the first N-1 devices, and has the 'Q' syndrome (the second 'parity' block used by RAID6) on the  last  de-
              vice.  These layouts are: left-symmetric-6, right-symmetric-6, left-asymmetric-6, right-asymmetric-6, and parity-first-6.

              When  setting the failure mode for level faulty, the options are: write-transient, wt, read-transient, rt, write-persistent, wp, read-persistent, rp, write-all, read-fix-
              able, rf, clear, flush, none.

              Each failure mode can be followed by a number, which is used as a period between fault generation.  Without a number, the fault is generated once on  the  first  relevant
              request.  With a number, the fault will be generated after that many requests, and will continue to be generated every time the period elapses.

              Multiple failure modes can be current simultaneously by using the --grow option to set subsequent failure modes.

              "clear" or "none" will remove any pending or periodic failure modes, and "flush" will clear any persistent faults.

              Finally, the layout options for RAID10 are one of 'n', 'o' or 'f' followed by a small number.  The default is 'n2'.  The supported options are:

              'n' signals 'near' copies.  Multiple copies of one data block are at similar offsets in different devices.

              'o'  signals 'offset' copies.  Rather than the chunks being duplicated within a stripe, whole stripes are duplicated but are rotated by one device so duplicate blocks are
              on different devices.  Thus subsequent copies of a block are in the next drive, and are one chunk further down.

              'f' signals 'far' copies (multiple copies have very different offsets).  See md(4) for more detail about 'near', 'offset', and 'far'.

              The number is the number of copies of each datablock.  2 is normal, 3 can be useful.  This number can be at most equal to the number of devices in the array.  It does not
              need to divide evenly into that number (e.g. it is perfectly legal to have an 'n2' layout for an array with an odd number of devices).

              When  an  array is converted between RAID5 and RAID6 an intermediate RAID6 layout is used in which the second parity block (Q) is always on the last device.  To convert a
              RAID5 to RAID6 and leave it in this new layout (which does not require re-striping) use --layout=preserve.  This will try to avoid any restriping.

              The converse of this is --layout=normalise which will change a non-standard RAID6 layout into a more standard arrangement.

       --parity=
              same as --layout (thus explaining the p of -p).

       -b, --bitmap=
              Specify a file to store a write-intent bitmap in.  The file should not exist unless --force is also given.  The same file should be provided when  assembling  the  array.
              If the word internal is given, then the bitmap is stored with the metadata on the array, and so is replicated on all devices.  If the word none is given with --grow mode,
              then any bitmap that is present is removed. If the word clustered is given, the array is created for a clustered environment. One bitmap is created for each node  as  de-
              fined by the --nodes parameter and are stored internally.

              To help catch typing errors, the filename must contain at least one slash ('/') if it is a real file (not 'internal' or 'none').

              Note: external bitmaps are only known to work on ext2 and ext3.  Storing bitmap files on other filesystems may result in serious problems.

              When  creating  an  array  on devices which are 100G or larger, mdadm automatically adds an internal bitmap as it will usually be beneficial.  This can be suppressed with
              --bitmap=none or by selecting a different consistency policy with --consistency-policy.

       --bitmap-chunk=
              Set the chunksize of the bitmap.  Each bit corresponds to that many Kilobytes of storage.  When using a file based bitmap, the default is to use the smallest size that is
              at-least  4  and  requires  no  more  than 2^21 chunks.  When using an internal bitmap, the chunksize defaults to 64Meg, or larger if necessary to fit the bitmap into the
              available space.

              A suffix of 'K', 'M' or 'G' can be given to indicate Kilobytes, Megabytes or Gigabytes respectively.

       -W, --write-mostly
              subsequent devices listed in a --build, --create, or --add command will be flagged as 'write-mostly'.  This is valid for RAID1 only and means that the  'md'  driver  will
              avoid reading from these devices if at all possible.  This can be useful if mirroring over a slow link.

       --write-behind=
              Specify  that write-behind mode should be enabled (valid for RAID1 only).  If an argument is specified, it will set the maximum number of outstanding writes allowed.  The
              default value is 256.  A write-intent bitmap is required in order to use write-behind mode, and write-behind is only attempted on drives marked as write-mostly.

       --failfast
              subsequent devices listed in a --create or --add command will be flagged as  'failfast'.  This is valid for RAID1 and RAID10 only.  IO requests to these devices  will  be
              encouraged to fail quickly rather than cause long delays due to error handling.  Also no attempt is made to repair a read error on these devices.

              If  an  array  becomes degraded so that the 'failfast' device is the only usable device, the 'failfast' flag will then be ignored and extended delays will be preferred to
              complete failure.

              The 'failfast' flag is appropriate for storage arrays which have a low probability of true failure, but which may sometimes cause  unacceptable  delays  due  to  internal
              maintenance functions.

       --assume-clean
              Tell  mdadm that the array pre-existed and is known to be clean.  It can be useful when trying to recover from a major failure as you can be sure that no data will be af-
              fected unless you actually write to the array.  It can also be used when creating a RAID1 or RAID10 if you want to avoid the initial resync, however this practice -- while
              normally safe -- is not recommended.  Use this only if you really know what you are doing.

              When  the devices that will be part of a new array were filled with zeros before creation the operator knows the array is actually clean. If that is the case, such as af-
              ter running badblocks, this argument can be used to tell mdadm the facts the operator knows.

              When an array is resized to a larger size with --grow --size= the new space is normally resynced in that same way that the whole array  is  resynced  at  creation.   From
              Linux version 3.0, --assume-clean can be used with that command to avoid the automatic resync.

       --backup-file=
              This  is needed when --grow is used to increase the number of raid-devices in a RAID5 or RAID6 if there are no spare devices available, or to shrink, change RAID level or
              layout.  See the GROW MODE section below on RAID-DEVICES CHANGES.  The file must be stored on a separate device, not on the RAID array being reshaped.

       --data-offset=
              Arrays with 1.x metadata can leave a gap between the start of the device and the start of array data.  This gap can be used for various metadata.  The start  of  data  is
              known as the data-offset.  Normally an appropriate data offset is computed automatically.  However it can be useful to set it explicitly such as when re-creating an array
              which was originally created using a different version of mdadm which computed a different offset.

              Setting the offset explicitly over-rides the default.  The value given is in Kilobytes unless a suffix of 'K', 'M' or  'G'  is  used  to  explicitly  indicate  Kilobytes,
              Megabytes or Gigabytes respectively.

              Since  Linux 3.4, --data-offset can also be used with --grow for some RAID levels (initially on RAID10).  This allows the data-offset to be changed as part of the reshape
              process.  When the data offset is changed, no backup file is required as the difference in offsets is used to provide the same functionality.

              When the new offset is earlier than the old offset, the number of devices in the array cannot shrink.  When it is after the old offset, the number of devices in the array
              cannot increase.

              When  creating  an  array,  --data-offset  can be specified as variable.  In the case each member device is expected to have a offset appended to the name, separated by a
              colon.  This makes it possible to recreate exactly an array which has varying data offsets (as can happen when different versions of mdadm are used to add  different  de-
              vices).

       --continue
              This  option  is complementary to the --freeze-reshape option for assembly. It is needed when --grow operation is interrupted and it is not restarted automatically due to
              --freeze-reshape usage during array assembly.  This option is used together with -G , ( --grow ) command and device for a pending reshape to be continued.  All parameters
              required  for reshape continuation will be read from array metadata.  If initial --grow command had required --backup-file= option to be set, continuation option will re-
              quire to have exactly the same backup file given as well.

              Any other parameter passed together with --continue option will be ignored.

       -N, --name=
              Set a name for the array.  This is currently only effective when creating an array with a version-1 superblock, or an array in a DDF container.  The name is a simple tex-
              tual string that can be used to identify array components when assembling.  If name is needed but not specified, it is taken from the basename of the device that is being
              created.  e.g. when creating /dev/md/home the name will default to home.

       -R, --run
              Insist that mdadm run the array, even if some of the components appear to be active in another array or filesystem.  Normally mdadm will ask for confirmation  before  in-
              cluding such components in an array.  This option causes that question to be suppressed.

       -f, --force
              Insist  that  mdadm  accept  the geometry and layout specified without question.  Normally mdadm will not allow creation of an array with only one device, and will try to
              create a RAID5 array with one missing drive (as this makes the initial resync work faster).  With --force, mdadm will not try to be so clever.

       -o, --readonly
              Start the array read only rather than read-write as normal.  No writes will be allowed to the array, and no resync, recovery, or reshape will be started.  It  works  with
              Create, Assemble, Manage and Misc mode.

       -a, --auto{=yes,md,mdp,part,p}{NN}
              Instruct  mdadm how to create the device file if needed, possibly allocating an unused minor number.  "md" causes a non-partitionable array to be used (though since Linux
              2.6.28, these array devices are in fact partitionable).  "mdp", "part" or "p" causes a partitionable array (2.6 and later) to be used.  "yes" requires the named md device
              to  have  a  'standard' format, and the type and minor number will be determined from this.  With mdadm 3.0, device creation is normally left up to udev so this option is
              unlikely to be needed.  See DEVICE NAMES below.

              The argument can also come immediately after "-a".  e.g. "-ap".

              If --auto is not given on the command line or in the config file, then the default will be --auto=yes.

              If --scan is also given, then any auto= entries in the config file will override the --auto instruction given on the command line.

              For partitionable arrays, mdadm will create the device file for the whole array and for the first 4 partitions.  A different number of partitions can be specified at  the
              end  of this option (e.g.  --auto=p7).  If the device name ends with a digit, the partition names add a 'p', and a number, e.g.  /dev/md/home1p3.  If there is no trailing
              digit, then the partition names just have a number added, e.g.  /dev/md/scratch3.

              If the md device name is in a 'standard' format as described in DEVICE NAMES, then it will be created, if necessary, with the appropriate  device  number  based  on  that
              name.   If  the device name is not in one of these formats, then a unused device number will be allocated.  The device number will be considered unused if there is no ac-
              tive array for that number, and there is no entry in /dev for that number and with a non-standard name.  Names that are not in  'standard'  format  are  only  allowed  in
              "/dev/md/".

              This is meaningful with --create or --build.

       -a, --add
              This option can be used in Grow mode in two cases.

              If the target array is a Linear array, then --add can be used to add one or more devices to the array.  They are simply catenated on to the end of the array.  Once added,
              the devices cannot be removed.

              If the --raid-disks option is being used to increase the number of devices in an array, then --add can be used to add some extra devices to be included in the array.   In
              most  cases this is not needed as the extra devices can be added as spares first, and then the number of raid-disks can be changed.  However for RAID0, it is not possible
              to add spares.  So to increase the number of devices in a RAID0, it is necessary to set the new number of devices, and to add the new devices, in the same command.

       --nodes
              Only works when the array is for clustered environment. It specifies the maximum number of nodes in the cluster that will use this device simultaneously.  If  not  speci-
              fied, this defaults to 4.

       --write-journal
              Specify journal device for the RAID-4/5/6 array. The journal device should be a SSD with reasonable lifetime.

       --symlinks
              Auto creation of symlinks in /dev to /dev/md, option --symlinks must be 'no' or 'yes' and work with --create and --build.

       -k, --consistency-policy=
              Specify how the array maintains consistency in case of unexpected shutdown.  Only relevant for RAID levels with redundancy.  Currently supported options are:

              resync Full resync is performed and all redundancy is regenerated when the array is started after unclean shutdown.

              bitmap Resync assisted by a write-intent bitmap. Implicitly selected when using --bitmap.

              journal
                     For RAID levels 4/5/6, journal device is used to log transactions and replay after unclean shutdown. Implicitly selected when using --write-journal.

              ppl    For  RAID5 only, Partial Parity Log is used to close the write hole and eliminate resync. PPL is stored in the metadata region of RAID member drives, no additional
                     journal drive is needed.

              Can be used with --grow to change the consistency policy of an active array in some cases. See CONSISTENCY POLICY CHANGES below.

For assemble:
       -u, --uuid=
              uuid of array to assemble.  Devices which don't have this uuid are excluded

       -m, --super-minor=
              Minor number of device that array was created for.  Devices which don't have this minor number are excluded.  If you create an array as  /dev/md1,  then  all  superblocks
              will contain the minor number 1, even if the array is later assembled as /dev/md2.

              Giving  the  literal word "dev" for --super-minor will cause mdadm to use the minor number of the md device that is being assembled.  e.g. when assembling /dev/md0, --su-
              per-minor=dev will look for super blocks with a minor number of 0.

              --super-minor is only relevant for v0.90 metadata, and should not normally be used.  Using --uuid is much safer.

       -N, --name=
              Specify the name of the array to assemble.  This must be the name that was specified when creating the array.  It must either match the name stored in the superblock  ex-
              actly, or it must match with the current homehost prefixed to the start of the given name.

       -f, --force
              Assemble  the array even if the metadata on some devices appears to be out-of-date.  If mdadm cannot find enough working devices to start the array, but can find some de-
              vices that are recorded as having failed, then it will mark those devices as working so that the array can be started.  An array which requires --force to be started  may
              contain data corruption.  Use it carefully.

       -R, --run
              Attempt to start the array even if fewer drives were given than were present last time the array was active.  Normally if not all the expected drives are found and --scan
              is not used, then the array will be assembled but not started.  With --run an attempt will be made to start it anyway.

       --no-degraded
              This is the reverse of --run in that it inhibits the startup of array unless all expected drives are present.  This is only needed with --scan, and can  be  used  if  the
              physical connections to devices are not as reliable as you would like.

       -a, --auto{=no,yes,md,mdp,part}
              See this option under Create and Build options.

       -b, --bitmap=
              Specify the bitmap file that was given when the array was created.  If an array has an internal bitmap, there is no need to specify this when assembling the array.

       --backup-file=
              If  --backup-file  was  used  while  reshaping  an array (e.g. changing number of devices or chunk size) and the system crashed during the critical section, then the same
              --backup-file must be presented to --assemble to allow possibly corrupted data to be restored, and the reshape to be completed.

       --invalid-backup
              If the file needed for the above option is not available for any reason an empty file can be given together with this option to indicate that the backup file is  invalid.
              In  this  case  the  data that was being rearranged at the time of the crash could be irrecoverably lost, but the rest of the array may still be recoverable.  This option
              should only be used as a last resort if there is no way to recover the backup file.

       -U, --update=
              Update the superblock on each device while assembling the array.  The argument given to this flag can be one of sparc2.2, summaries, uuid, name,  nodes,  homehost,  home-
              cluster, resync, byteorder, devicesize, no-bitmap, bbl, no-bbl, ppl, no-ppl, metadata, or super-minor.

              The  sparc2.2 option will adjust the superblock of an array what was created on a Sparc machine running a patched 2.2 Linux kernel.  This kernel got the alignment of part
              of the superblock wrong.  You can use the --examine --sparc2.2 option to mdadm to see what effect this would have.

              The super-minor option will update the preferred minor field on each superblock to match the minor number of the array being assembled.  This can be useful  if  --examine
              reports  a different "Preferred Minor" to --detail.  In some cases this update will be performed automatically by the kernel driver.  In particular the update happens au-
              tomatically at the first write to an array with redundancy (RAID level 1 or greater) on a 2.6 (or later) kernel.

              The uuid option will change the uuid of the array.  If a UUID is given with the --uuid option that UUID will be used as a new UUID and will NOT be used to  help  identify
              the devices in the array.  If no --uuid is given, a random UUID is chosen.

              The name option will change the name of the array as stored in the superblock.  This is only supported for version-1 superblocks.

              The nodes option will change the nodes of the array as stored in the bitmap superblock. This option only works for a clustered environment.

              The homehost option will change the homehost as recorded in the superblock.  For version-0 superblocks, this is the same as updating the UUID.  For version-1 superblocks,
              this involves updating the name.

              The home-cluster option will change the cluster name as recorded in the superblock and bitmap. This option only works for clustered environment.

              The resync option will cause the array to be marked dirty meaning that any redundancy in the array (e.g. parity for RAID5, copies for RAID1) may be incorrect.  This  will
              cause the RAID system to perform a "resync" pass to make sure that all redundant information is correct.

              The byteorder option allows arrays to be moved between machines with different byte-order, such as from a big-endian machine like a Sparc or some MIPS machines, to a lit-
              tle-endian x86_64 machine.  When assembling such an array for the first time after a move, giving --update=byteorder will cause mdadm to expect superblocks to have  their
              byteorder reversed, and will correct that order before assembling the array.  This is only valid with original (Version 0.90) superblocks.

              The summaries option will correct the summaries in the superblock.  That is the counts of total, working, active, failed, and spare devices.

              The  devicesize  option will rarely be of use.  It applies to version 1.1 and 1.2 metadata only (where the metadata is at the start of the device) and is only useful when
              the component device has changed size (typically become larger).  The version 1 metadata records the amount of the device that can be used to store data, so if  a  device
              in  a  version  1.1  or 1.2 array becomes larger, the metadata will still be visible, but the extra space will not.  In this case it might be useful to assemble the array
              with --update=devicesize.  This will cause mdadm to determine the maximum usable amount of space on each device and update the relevant field in the metadata.

              The metadata option only works on v0.90 metadata arrays and will convert them to v1.0 metadata.  The array must not be dirty (i.e. it must not need a sync)  and  it  must
              not have a write-intent bitmap.

              The old metadata will remain on the devices, but will appear older than the new metadata and so will usually be ignored. The old metadata (or indeed the new metadata) can
              be removed by giving the appropriate --metadata= option to --zero-superblock.

              The no-bitmap option can be used when an array has an internal bitmap which is corrupt in some way so that assembling the array normally fails.  It will cause any  inter-
              nal bitmap to be ignored.

              The  bbl  option will reserve space in each device for a bad block list.  This will be 4K in size and positioned near the end of any free space between the superblock and
              the data.

              The no-bbl option will cause any reservation of space for a bad block list to be removed.  If the bad block list contains entries, this will fail, as  removing  the  list
              could cause data corruption.

              The ppl option will enable PPL for a RAID5 array and reserve space for PPL on each device. There must be enough free space between the data and superblock and a write-in-
              tent bitmap or journal must not be used.

              The no-ppl option will disable PPL in the superblock.

       --freeze-reshape
              Option is intended to be used in start-up scripts during initrd boot phase.  When array under reshape is assembled during initrd phase, this option  stops  reshape  after
              reshape  critical  section  is  being  restored. This happens before file system pivot operation and avoids loss of file system context.  Losing file system context would
              cause reshape to be broken.

              Reshape can be continued later using the --continue option for the grow command.

       --symlinks
              See this option under Create and Build options.

For Manage mode:
       -t, --test
              Unless a more serious error occurred, mdadm will exit with a status of 2 if no changes were made to the array and 0 if at least one change was made.  This can  be  useful
              when  an  indirect  specifier  such as missing, detached or faulty is used in requesting an operation on the array.  --test will report failure if these specifiers didn't
              find any match.

       -a, --add
              hot-add listed devices.  If a device appears to have recently been part of the array (possibly it failed or was removed) the device is re-added as described in  the  next
              point.   If that fails or the device was never part of the array, the device is added as a hot-spare.  If the array is degraded, it will immediately start to rebuild data
              onto that spare.

              Note that this and the following options are only meaningful on array with redundancy.  They don't apply to RAID0 or Linear.

       --re-add
              re-add a device that was previously removed from an array.  If the metadata on the device reports that it is a member of the array, and the slot that it used is still va-
              cant,  then  the  device  will  be added back to the array in the same position.  This will normally cause the data for that device to be recovered.  However based on the
              event count on the device, the recovery may only require sections that are flagged a write-intent bitmap to be recovered or may not require any recovery at all.

              When used on an array that has no metadata (i.e. it was built with --build) it will be assumed that bitmap-based recovery is enough to make the  device  fully  consistent
              with the array.

              When  used with v1.x metadata, --re-add can be accompanied by --update=devicesize, --update=bbl, or --update=no-bbl.  See the description of these option when used in As-
              semble mode for an explanation of their use.

              If the device name given is missing then mdadm will try to find any device that looks like it should be part of the array but isn't and will try to re-add  all  such  de-
              vices.

              If  the device name given is faulty then mdadm will find all devices in the array that are marked faulty, remove them and attempt to immediately re-add them.  This can be
              useful if you are certain that the reason for failure has been resolved.

       --add-spare
              Add a device as a spare.  This is similar to --add except that it does not attempt --re-add first.  The device will be added as a spare even if it looks like it could  be
              an recent member of the array.

       -r, --remove
              remove listed devices.  They must not be active.  i.e. they should be failed or spare devices.

              As well as the name of a device file (e.g.  /dev/sda1) the words failed, detached and names like set-A can be given to --remove.  The first causes all failed device to be
              removed.  The second causes any device which is no longer connected to the system (i.e an 'open' returns ENXIO) to be removed.  The third will remove a  set  as  describe
              below under --fail.

       -f, --fail
              Mark  listed devices as faulty.  As well as the name of a device file, the word detached or a set name like set-A can be given.  The former will cause any device that has
              been detached from the system to be marked as failed.  It can then be removed.

              For RAID10 arrays where the number of copies evenly divides the number of devices, the devices can be conceptually divided into sets where each set contains a single com-
              plete copy of the data on the array.  Sometimes a RAID10 array will be configured so that these sets are on separate controllers.  In this case all the devices in one set
              can be failed by giving a name like set-A or set-B to --fail.  The appropriate set names are reported by --detail.

       --set-faulty
              same as --fail.

       --replace
              Mark listed devices as requiring replacement.  As soon as a spare is available, it will be rebuilt and will replace the marked device.  This is similar to marking  a  de-
              vice  as  faulty,  but the device remains in service during the recovery process to increase resilience against multiple failures.  When the replacement process finishes,
              the replaced device will be marked as faulty.

       --with This can follow a list of --replace devices.  The devices listed after --with will be preferentially used to replace the devices listed  after  --replace.   These  device
              must already be spare devices in the array.

       --write-mostly
              Subsequent  devices that are added or re-added will have the 'write-mostly' flag set.  This is only valid for RAID1 and means that the 'md' driver will avoid reading from
              these devices if possible.

       --readwrite
              Subsequent devices that are added or re-added will have the 'write-mostly' flag cleared.

       --cluster-confirm
              Confirm the existence of the device. This is issued in response to an --add request by a node in a cluster. When a node adds a device it sends a message to all  nodes  in
              the  cluster to look for a device with a UUID. This translates to a udev notification with the UUID of the device to be added and the slot number. The receiving node must
              acknowledge this message with --cluster-confirm. Valid arguments are <slot>:<devicename> in case the device is found or <slot>:missing in case the device is not found.

       --add-journal
              Add journal to an existing array, or recreate journal for RAID-4/5/6 array that lost a journal device. To avoid interrupting on-going write opertions, --add-journal  only
              works for array in Read-Only state.

       --failfast
              Subsequent  devices  that are added or re-added will have the 'failfast' flag set.  This is only valid for RAID1 and RAID10 and means that the 'md' driver will avoid long
              timeouts on error handling where possible.

       --nofailfast
              Subsequent devices that are re-added will be re-added without the 'failfast' flag set.

       Each of these options requires that the first device listed is the array to be acted upon, and the remainder are component devices to be added, removed, marked as  faulty,  etc.
       Several different operations can be specified for different devices, e.g.
            mdadm /dev/md0 --add /dev/sda1 --fail /dev/sdb1 --remove /dev/sdb1
       Each operation applies to all devices listed until the next operation.

       If  an  array is using a write-intent bitmap, then devices which have been removed can be re-added in a way that avoids a full reconstruction but instead just updates the blocks
       that have changed since the device was removed.  For arrays with persistent metadata (superblocks) this is done automatically.  For arrays created with --build mdadm needs to be
       told that this device we removed recently with --re-add.

       Devices  can  only  be  removed  from an array if they are not in active use, i.e. that must be spares or failed devices.  To remove an active device, it must first be marked as
       faulty.

For Misc mode:
       -Q, --query
              Examine a device to see (1) if it is an md device and (2) if it is a component of an md array.  Information about what is discovered is presented.

       -D, --detail
              Print details of one or more md devices.

       --detail-platform
              Print details of the platform's RAID capabilities (firmware / hardware topology) for a given metadata format. If used without argument, mdadm will  scan  all  controllers
              looking  for  their  capabilities.  Otherwise,  mdadm will only look at the controller specified by the argument in form of an absolute filepath or a link, e.g.  /sys/de-
              vices/pci0000:00/0000:00:1f.2.

       -Y, --export
              When used with --detail, --detail-platform, --examine, or --incremental output will be formatted as key=value pairs for easy import into the environment.

              With --incremental The value MD_STARTED indicates whether an array was started (yes) or not, which may include a reason (unsafe, nothing, no).  Also the value  MD_FOREIGN
              indicates if the array is expected on this host (no), or seems to be from elsewhere (yes).

       -E, --examine
              Print  contents of the metadata stored on the named device(s).  Note the contrast between --examine and --detail.  --examine applies to devices which are components of an
              array, while --detail applies to a whole array which is currently active.

       --sparc2.2
              If an array was created on a SPARC machine with a 2.2 Linux kernel patched with RAID support, the superblock will have been created incorrectly, or at least  incompatibly
              with 2.4 and later kernels.  Using the --sparc2.2 flag with --examine will fix the superblock before displaying it.  If this appears to do the right thing, then the array
              can be successfully assembled using --assemble --update=sparc2.2.

       -X, --examine-bitmap
              Report information about a bitmap file.  The argument is either an external bitmap file or an array component in case of an internal bitmap.  Note that running this on an
              array device (e.g.  /dev/md0) does not report the bitmap for that array.

       --examine-badblocks
              List the bad-blocks recorded for the device, if a bad-blocks list has been configured.  Currently only 1.x metadata supports bad-blocks lists.

       --dump=directory

       --restore=directory
              Save metadata from lists devices, or restore metadata to listed devices.

       -R, --run
              start  a  partially  assembled  array.  If --assemble did not find enough devices to fully start the array, it might leaving it partially assembled.  If you wish, you can
              then use --run to start the array in degraded mode.

       -S, --stop
              deactivate array, releasing all resources.

       -o, --readonly
              mark array as readonly.

       -w, --readwrite
              mark array as readwrite.

       --zero-superblock
              If the device contains a valid md superblock, the block is overwritten with zeros.  With --force the block where the superblock would be is overwritten even if it doesn't
              appear to be valid.

              Note: Be careful to call --zero-superblock with clustered raid, make sure array isn't used or assembled in other cluster node before execute it.

       --kill-subarray=
              If  the  device  is a container and the argument to --kill-subarray specifies an inactive subarray in the container, then the subarray is deleted.  Deleting all subarrays
              will leave an 'empty-container' or spare superblock on the drives.  See --zero-superblock for completely removing a superblock.  Note that some formats depend on the sub-
              array index for generating a UUID, this command will fail if it would change the UUID of an active subarray.

       --update-subarray=
              If  the device is a container and the argument to --update-subarray specifies a subarray in the container, then attempt to update the given superblock field in the subar-
              ray. See below in MISC MODE for details.

       -t, --test
              When used with --detail, the exit status of mdadm is set to reflect the status of the device.  See below in MISC MODE for details.

       -W, --wait
              For each md device given, wait for any resync, recovery, or reshape activity to finish before returning.  mdadm will return with success if it actually waited  for  every
              device listed, otherwise it will return failure.

       --wait-clean
              For each md device given, or each device in /proc/mdstat if --scan is given, arrange for the array to be marked clean as soon as possible.  mdadm will return with success
              if the array uses external metadata and we successfully waited.  For native arrays this returns immediately as the kernel handles dirty-clean transitions at shutdown.  No
              action is taken if safe-mode handling is disabled.

       --action=
              Set  the  "sync_action"  for all md devices given to one of idle, frozen, check, repair.  Setting to idle will abort any currently running action though some actions will
              automatically restart.  Setting to frozen will abort any current action and ensure no other action starts automatically.

              Details of check and repair can be found it md(4) under SCRUBBING AND MISMATCHES.

For Incremental Assembly mode:
       --rebuild-map, -r
              Rebuild the map file (/run/mdadm/map) that mdadm uses to help track which arrays are currently being assembled.

       --run, -R
              Run any array assembled as soon as a minimal number of devices are available, rather than waiting until all expected devices are present.

       --scan, -s
              Only meaningful with -R this will scan the map file for arrays that are being incrementally assembled and will try to start any that are not already started.  If any such
              array is listed in mdadm.conf as requiring an external bitmap, that bitmap will be attached first.

       --fail, -f
              This  allows  the  hot-plug system to remove devices that have fully disappeared from the kernel.  It will first fail and then remove the device from any array it belongs
              to.  The device name given should be a kernel device name such as "sda", not a name in /dev.

       --path=
              Only used with --fail.  The 'path' given will be recorded so that if a new device appears at the same location it can be automatically added to the same array.  This  al-
              lows the failed device to be automatically replaced by a new device without metadata if it appears at specified path.   This option is normally only set by a udev script.

For Monitor mode:
       -m, --mail
              Give a mail address to send alerts to.

       -p, --program, --alert
              Give a program to be run whenever an event is detected.

       -y, --syslog
              Cause all events to be reported through 'syslog'.  The messages have facility of 'daemon' and varying priorities.

       -d, --delay
              Give  a delay in seconds.  mdadm polls the md arrays and then waits this many seconds before polling again.  The default is 60 seconds.  Since 2.6.16, there is no need to
              reduce this as the kernel alerts mdadm immediately when there is any change.

       -r, --increment
              Give a percentage increment.  mdadm will generate RebuildNN events with the given percentage increment.

       -f, --daemonise
              Tell mdadm to run as a background daemon if it decides to monitor anything.  This causes it to fork and run in the child,  and  to  disconnect  from  the  terminal.   The
              process  id  of  the child is written to stdout.  This is useful with --scan which will only continue monitoring if a mail address or alert program is found in the config
              file.

       -i, --pid-file
              When mdadm is running in daemon mode, write the pid of the daemon process to the specified file, instead of printing it on standard output.

       -1, --oneshot
              Check arrays only once.  This will generate NewArray events and more significantly DegradedArray and SparesMissing events.  Running
                      mdadm --monitor --scan -1
              from a cron script will ensure regular notification of any degraded arrays.

       -t, --test
              Generate a TestMessage alert for every array found at startup.  This alert gets mailed and passed to the alert program.  This can be used for testing that  alert  message
              do get through successfully.

       --no-sharing
              This  inhibits  the  functionality  for moving spares between arrays.  Only one monitoring process started with --scan but without this flag is allowed, otherwise the two
              could interfere with each other.

