MISC MODE
       Usage: mdadm options ...  devices ...

       MISC mode includes a number of distinct operations that operate on distinct devices.  The operations are:

       --query
              The device is examined to see if it is (1) an active md array, or (2) a component of an md array.  The information discovered is reported.

       --detail
              The device should be an active md device.  mdadm will display a detailed description of the array.  --brief or --scan will cause the output to be less  detailed  and  the
              format  to  be  suitable for inclusion in mdadm.conf.  The exit status of mdadm will normally be 0 unless mdadm failed to get useful information about the device(s); how-
              ever, if the --test option is given, then the exit status will be:

              0      The array is functioning normally.

              1      The array has at least one failed device.

              2      The array has multiple failed devices such that it is unusable.

              4      There was an error while trying to get information about the device.

       --detail-platform
              Print detail of the platform's RAID capabilities (firmware / hardware topology).  If the metadata is specified with -e or --metadata= then the return status will be:

              0      metadata successfully enumerated its platform components on this system

              1      metadata is platform independent

              2      metadata failed to find its platform components on this system

       --update-subarray=
              If the device is a container and the argument to --update-subarray specifies a subarray in the container, then attempt to update the given superblock field in the  subar-
              ray.  Similar to updating an array in "assemble" mode, the field to update is selected by -U or --update= option. The supported options are name, ppl and no-ppl.

              The  name  option updates the subarray name in the metadata, it may not affect the device node name or the device node symlink until the subarray is re-assembled.  If up-
              dating name would change the UUID of an active subarray this operation is blocked, and the command will end in an error.

              The ppl and no-ppl options enable and disable PPL in the metadata. Currently supported only for IMSM subarrays.

       --examine
              The device should be a component of an md array.  mdadm will read the md superblock of the device and display the contents.  If --brief or --scan is given, then  multiple
              devices that are components of the one array are grouped together and reported in a single entry suitable for inclusion in mdadm.conf.

              Having --scan without listing any devices will cause all devices listed in the config file to be examined.

       --dump=directory
              If  the  device  contains RAID metadata, a file will be created in the directory and the metadata will be written to it.  The file will be the same size as the device and
              have the metadata written in the file at the same locate that it exists in the device.  However the file will be "sparse" so that only those  blocks  containing  metadata
              will be allocated. The total space used will be small.

              The  file  name  used in the directory will be the base name of the device.   Further if any links appear in /dev/disk/by-id which point to the device, then hard links to
              the file will be created in directory based on these by-id names.

              Multiple devices can be listed and their metadata will all be stored in the one directory.

       --restore=directory
              This is the reverse of --dump.  mdadm will locate a file in the directory that has a name appropriate for the given device and will restore metadata from it.  Names  that
              match /dev/disk/by-id names are preferred, however if two of those refer to different files, mdadm will not choose between them but will abort the operation.

              If a file name is given instead of a directory then mdadm will restore from that file to a single device, always provided the size of the file matches that of the device,
              and the file contains valid metadata.

       --stop The devices should be active md arrays which will be deactivated, as long as they are not currently in use.

       --run  This will fully activate a partially assembled md array.

       --readonly
              This will mark an active array as read-only, providing that it is not currently being used.

       --readwrite
              This will change a readonly array back to being read/write.

       --scan For all operations except --examine, --scan will cause the operation to be applied to all arrays listed in /proc/mdstat.  For --examine, --scan causes all devices  listed
              in the config file to be examined.

       -b, --brief
              Be less verbose.  This is used with --detail and --examine.  Using --brief with --verbose gives an intermediate level of verbosity.

