Abstract

This document describes the Network Time Protocol (NTP), specifies its
formal structure and summarizes information useful for its
implementation. NTP provides the mechanisms to synchronize time and
coordinate time distribution in a large, diverse internet operating at
rates from mundane to lightwave. It uses a returnable-time design in
which a distributed subnet of time servers operating in a self-
organizing, hierarchical-master-slave configuration synchronizes local
clocks within the subnet and to national time standards via wire or
radio. The servers can also redistribute reference time via local
routing algorithms and time daemons.

Status of this Memo

This RFC specifies an IAB standards track protocol for the Internet
community and requests discussion and suggestions for improvements.
Please refer to the current edition of the <169>IAB Official Protocol
Standards<170> for the standardization state and status of this
protocol. Distribution of this memo is unlimited.

Keywords: network clock synchronization, standard time distribution,
fault-tolerant architecture, maximum-likelihood estimation, disciplined
oscillator, internet protocol, high-speed networks, formal
specification.

Preface

This document describes Version 3 of the Network Time Protocol (NTP). It
supersedes Version 2 of the protocol described in RFC-1119 dated
September 1989. However, it neither changes the protocol in any
significant way nor obsoletes previous versions or existing
implementations. The main motivation for the new version is to refine
the analysis and implementation models for new applications at much
higher network speeds to the gigabit-per-second regime and to provide
for the enhanced stability, accuracy and precision required at such
speeds. In particular, the sources of time and frequency errors have
been rigorously examined and error bounds established in order to
improve performance, provide a model for correctness assertions and
indicate timekeeping quality to the user. The revision also incorporates
two new optional features, (1) an algorithm to combine the offsets of a
number of peer time servers in order to enhance accuracy and (2)
improved local-clock algorithms which allow the poll intervals on all
synchronization paths to be substantially increased in order to reduce
network overhead. An overview of the changes, which are described in
detail in Appendix D, follows:

