I.6.     Subroutine to Compute Synchronization Distance 112

List of Figures

Figure 1. Implementation Model  6

Figure 2. Calculating Delay and Offset  25

Figure 3. Clock Registers       39

Figure 4. NTP Message Header    50

Figure 5. NTP Control Message Header    54

Figure 6. Status Word Formats   55

Figure 7. Authenticator Format  63

Figure 8. Comparison of UTC and NTP Timescales at Leap  79

Figure 9. Network Time Protocol 80

Figure 10. Hardware Clock Models        86

Figure 11. Clock Adjustment Process     90

Figure 12. NTP Phase-Lock Loop (PLL) Model      91

Figure 13. Timing Intervals     96

Figure 14. Measuring Delay and Offset   100

Figure 15. Error Accumulations  103

Figure 16. Confidence Intervals and Intersections       105

List of Tables

Table 1. System Variables       12

Table 2. Peer Variables 13

Table 3. Packet Variables       14

Table 4. Parameters     16

Table 5. Modes and Actions      22

Table 6. Clock Parameters       40

Table 7. Characteristics of Standard Oscillators        71

Table 8. Table of Leap-Second Insertions        77

Table 9. Notation Used in PLL Analysis  91

Table 10. PLL Parameters        91

Table 11. Notation Used in PLL Analysis 95

Table 12. Notation Used in Error Analysis       98

Introduction
This document constitutes a formal specification of the Network Time
Protocol (NTP) Version 3, which is used to synchronize timekeeping among
a set of distributed time servers and clients. It defines the
architectures, algorithms, entities and protocols used by NTP and is
intended primarily for implementors. A companion document [MIL91a]
summarizes the requirements, analytical models, algorithmic analysis and
performance under typical Internet conditions. Another document [MIL91b]
describes the NTP timescale and its relationship to other standard
timescales now in use. NTP was first described in RFC-958 [MIL85c], but
has since evolved in significant ways, culminating in the most recent
NTP Version 2 described in RFC-1119 [MIL89]. It is built on the Internet
Protocol (IP) [DAR81a] and User Datagram Protocol (UDP) [POS80], which
provide a connectionless transport mechanism; however, it is readily
adaptable to other protocol suites. NTP is evolved from the Time
Protocol [POS83b] and the ICMP Timestamp message [DAR81b], but is
specifically designed to maintain accuracy and robustness, even when
used over typical Internet paths involving multiple gateways, highly
dispersive delays and unreliable nets.

The service environment consists of the implementation model and service
model described in Section 2. The implementation model is based on a
multiple-process operating system architecture, although other
architectures could be used as well. The service model is based on a
returnable-time design which depends only on measured clock offsets, but
does not require reliable message delivery. The synchronization subnet
uses a self-organizing, hierarchical-master-slave configuration, with
synchronization paths determined by a minimum-weight spanning tree.
While multiple masters (primary servers) may exist, there is no
requirement for an election protocol.

NTP itself is described in Section 3. It provides the protocol
mechanisms to synchronize time in principle to precisions in the order
of nanoseconds while preserving a non-ambiguous date well into the next
century. The protocol includes provisions to specify the characteristics
and estimate the error of the local clock and the time server to which
it may be synchronized. It also includes provisions for operation with a
number of mutually suspicious, hierarchically distributed primary
reference sources such as radio-synchronized clocks.

Section 4 describes algorithms useful for deglitching and smoothing
clock-offset samples collected on a continuous basis. These algorithms
evolved from those suggested in [MIL85a], were refined as the results of
experiments described in [MIL85b] and further evolved under typical
operating conditions over the last three years. In addition, as the
result of experience in operating multiple-server subnets including
radio clocks at several sites in the U.S. and with clients in the U.S.
and Europe, reliable algorithms for selecting good clocks from a
population possibly including broken ones have been developed [DEC89],
[MIL91a] and are described in Section 4.

The accuracies achievable by NTP depend strongly on the precision of the
local-clock hardware and stringent control of device and process
latencies. Provisions must be included to adjust the software logical-
clock time and frequency in response to corrections produced by NTP.
Section 5 describes a local-clock design evolved from the Fuzzball
implementation described in [MIL83b] and [MIL88b]. This design includes
offset-slewing, frequency compensation and deglitching mechanisms
capable of accuracies in the order of a millisecond, even after extended
periods when synchronization to primary reference sources has been lost.

Details specific to NTP packet formats used with the Internet Protocol
(IP) and User Datagram Protocol (UDP) are presented in Appendix A, while
details of a suggested auxiliary NTP Control Message, which may be used
when comprehensive network-monitoring facilities are not available, are
presented in Appendix B. Appendix C contains specification and
implementation details of an optional authentication mechanism which can
be used to control access and prevent unauthorized data modification,
while Appendix D contains a listing of differences between Version 3 of
NTP and previous versions. Appendix E expands on issues involved with
precision timescales and calendar dating peculiar to computer networks
and NTP. Appendix F describes an optional algorithm to improve accuracy
by combining the time offsets of a number of clocks. Appendix G presents
a detailed mathematical model and analysis of the NTP local-clock
algorithms. Appendix H analyzes the sources and propagation of errors
and presents correctness principles relating to the time-transfer
service. Appendix I illustrates C-language code segments for the clock-
filter, clock-selection and related algorithms described in Section 4.

Related Technology

Other mechanisms have been specified in the Internet protocol suite to
record and transmit the time at which an event takes place, including
the Daytime protocol [POS83a], Time Protocol [POS83b], ICMP Timestamp
message [DAR81b] and IP Timestamp option [SU81]. Experimental results on
measured clock offsets and roundtrip delays in the Internet are
discussed in [MIL83a], [MIL85b], [COL88] and [MIL88a]. Other
synchronization algorithms are discussed in [LAM78], [GUS84], [HAL84],
[LUN84], [LAM85], [MAR85], [MIL85a], [MIL85b], [MIL85c], [GUS85b],
[SCH86], [TRI86], [RIC88], [MIL88a], [DEC89] and [MIL91a], while
protocols based on them are described in [MIL81a], [MIL81b], [MIL83b],
[GUS85a], [MIL85c], [TRI86], [MIL88a], [DEC89] and [MIL91a]. NTP uses
techniques evolved from them and both linear-systems and agreement
methodologies. Linear methods for digital telephone network
synchronization are summarized in [LIN80], while agreement methods for
clock synchronization are summarized in [LAM85].

The Digital Time Service (DTS) [DEC89] has many of the same service
objectives as NTP. The DTS design places heavy emphasis on configuration
management and correctness principles when operated in a managed LAN or
LAN-cluster environment, while NTP places heavy emphasis on the accuracy
and stability of the service operated in an unmanaged, global-internet
environment. In DTS a synchronization subnet consists of clerks,
servers, couriers and time providers. With respect to the NTP
nomenclature, a time provider is a primary reference source, a courier
is a secondary server intended to import time from one or more distant
primary servers for local redistribution and a server is intended to
provide time for possibly many end nodes or clerks. Unlike NTP, DTS does
not need or use mode or stratum information in clock selection and does
not include provisions to filter timing noise, select the most accurate
from a set of presumed correct clocks or compensate for inherent
frequency errors.

In fact, the latest revisions in NTP have adopted certain features of
DTS in order to support correctness principles. These include mechanisms
to bound the maximum errors inherent in the time-transfer procedures and
the use of a provably correct (subject to stated assumptions) mechanism
to reject inappropriate peers in the clock-selection procedures. These
features are described in Section 4 and Appendix H of this document.

The Fuzzball routing protocol [MIL83b], sometimes called Hellospeak,
incorporates time synchronization directly into the routing-protocol
design. One or more processes synchronize to an external reference
source, such as a radio clock or NTP daemon, and the routing algorithm
constructs a minimum-weight spanning tree rooted on these processes. The
clock offsets are then distributed along the arcs of the spanning tree
to all processes in the system and the various process clocks corrected
using the procedure described in Section 5 of this document. While it
can be seen that the design of Hellospeak strongly influenced the design
of NTP, Hellospeak itself is not an Internet protocol and is unsuited
for use outside its local-net environment.

The Unix 4.3bsd time daemon timed [GUS85a] uses a single master-time
daemon to measure offsets of a number of slave hosts and send periodic
corrections to them. In this model the master is determined using an
election algorithm [GUS85b] designed to avoid situations where either no
master is elected or more than one master is elected. The election
process requires a broadcast capability, which is not a ubiquitous
feature of the Internet. While this model has been extended to support
hierarchical configurations in which a slave on one network serves as a
master on the other [TRI86], the model requires handcrafted
configuration tables in order to establish the hierarchy and avoid
loops. In addition to the burdensome, but presumably infrequent,
overheads of the election process, the offset measurement/correction
process requires twice as many messages as NTP per update.

A scheme with features similar to NTP is described in [KOP87]. This
scheme is intended for multi-server LANs where each of a set of possibly
many time servers determines its local-time offset relative to each of
the other servers in the set using periodic timestamped messages, then
determines the local-clock correction using the Fault-Tolerant Average
(FTA) algorithm of [LUN84]. The FTA algorithm, which is useful where up
to k servers may be faulty, sorts the offsets, discards the k highest
and lowest ones and averages the rest. The scheme, as described in
[SCH86], is most suitable to LAN environments which support broadcast
and would result in unacceptable overhead in an internet environment. In
addition, for reasons given in Section 4 of this paper, the statistical
properties of the FTA algorithm are not likely to be optimal in an
internet environment with highly dispersive delays.

A good deal of research has gone into the issue of maintaining accurate
time in a community where some clocks cannot be trusted. A truechimer is
a clock that maintains timekeeping accuracy to a previously published
(and trusted) standard, while a falseticker is a clock that does not.
Determining whether a particular clock is a truechimer or falseticker is
an interesting abstract problem which can be attacked using agreement
methods summarized in [LAM85] and [SRI87].

A convergence function operates upon the offsets between the clocks in a
system to increase the accuracy by reducing or eliminating errors caused
by falsetickers. There are two classes of convergence functions, those
involving interactive-convergence algorithms and those involving
interactive-consistency algorithms. Interactive-convergence algorithms
use statistical clustering techniques such as the fault-tolerant average
algorithm of [HAL84], the CNV algorithm of [LUN84], the majority-subset
algorithm of [MIL85a], the non-Byzantine algorithm of [RIC88], the
egocentric algorithm of [SCH86], the intersection algorithm of [MAR85]
and [DEC89] and the algorithms in Section 4 of this document.

Interactive-consistency algorithms are designed to detect faulty clock
processes which might indicate grossly inconsistent offsets in
successive readings or to different readers. These algorithms use an
agreement protocol involving successive rounds of readings, possibly
relayed and possibly augmented by digital signatures. Examples include
the fireworks algorithm of [HAL84] and the optimum algorithm of [SRI87].
However, these algorithms require large numbers of messages, especially
when large numbers of clocks are involved, and are designed to detect
faults that have rarely been found in the Internet experience. For these
reasons they are not considered further in this document.

In practice it is not possible to determine the truechimers from the
falsetickers on other than a statistical basis, especially with
hierarchical configurations and a statistically noisy Internet. While it
is possible to bound the maximum errors in the time-transfer procedures,
assuming sufficiently generous tolerances are adopted for the hardware
components, this generally results in rather poor accuracies and
stabilities. The approach taken in the NTP design and its predecessors
involves mutually coupled oscillators and maximum-likelihood estimation
and clock-selection procedures, together with a design that allows
provable assertions on error bounds to be made relative to stated
assumptions on the correctness of the primary reference sources. From
the analytical point of view, the system of distributed NTP peers
operates as a set of coupled phase-locked oscillators, with the update
algorithm functioning as a phase detector and the local clock as a
disciplined oscillator, but with deterministic error bounds calculated
at each step in the time-transfer process.

The particular choice of offset measurement and computation procedure
described in Section 3 is a variant of the returnable-time system used
in some digital telephone networks [LIN80]. The clock filter and
selection algorithms are designed so that the clock synchronization
subnet self-organizes into a hierarchical-master-slave configuration
[MIT80]. With respect to timekeeping accuracy and stability, the
similarity of NTP to digital telephone systems is not accidental, since
systems like this have been studied extensively [LIN80], [BRA80]. What
makes the NTP model unique is the adaptive configuration, polling,
filtering, selection and correctness mechanisms which tailor the
dynamics of the system to fit the ubiquitous Internet environment.

System Architecture

In the NTP model a number of primary reference sources, synchronized by
wire or radio to national standards, are connected to widely accessible
resources, such as backbone gateways, and operated as primary time
servers. The purpose of NTP is to convey timekeeping information from
these servers to other time servers via the Internet and also to cross-
check clocks and mitigate errors due to equipment or propagation
failures. Some number of local-net hosts or gateways, acting as
secondary time servers, run NTP with one or more of the primary servers.
In order to reduce the protocol overhead, the secondary servers
distribute time via NTP to the remaining local-net hosts. In the
interest of reliability, selected hosts can be equipped with less
accurate but less expensive radio clocks and used for backup in case of
failure of the primary and/or secondary servers or communication paths
between them.

Throughout this document a standard nomenclature has been adopted: the
stability of a clock is how well it can maintain a constant frequency,
the accuracy is how well its frequency and time compare with national
standards and the precision is how precisely these quantities can be
maintained within a particular timekeeping system. Unless indicated
otherwise, the offset of two clocks is the time difference between them,
while the skew is the frequency difference (first derivative of offset
with time) between them. Real clocks exhibit some variation in skew
(second derivative of offset with time), which is called drift; however,
in this version of the specification the drift is assumed zero.

NTP is designed to produce three products: clock offset, roundtrip delay
and dispersion, all of which are relative to a selected reference clock.
Clock offset represents the amount to adjust the local clock to bring it
into correspondence with the reference clock. Roundtrip delay provides
the capability to launch a message to arrive at the reference clock at a
specified time. Dispersion represents the maximum error of the local
clock relative to the reference clock. Since most host time servers will
synchronize via another peer time server, there are two components in
each of these three products, those determined by the peer relative to
the primary reference source of standard time and those measured by the
host relative to the peer. Each of these components are maintained
separately in the protocol in order to facilitate error control and
management of the subnet itself. They provide not only precision
measurements of offset and delay, but also definitive maximum error
bounds, so that the user interface can determine not only the time, but
the quality of the time as well.

There is no provision for peer discovery or virtual-circuit management
in NTP. Data integrity is provided by the IP and UDP checksums. No flow-
control or retransmission facilities are provided or necessary.
Duplicate detection is inherent in the processing algorithms. The
service can operate in a symmetric mode, in which servers and clients
are indistinguishable, yet maintain a small amount of state information,
or in client/server mode, in which servers need maintain no state other
than that contained in the client request. A lightweight association-
management capability, including dynamic reachability and variable poll-
rate mechanisms, is included only to manage the state information and
reduce resource requirements. Since only a single NTP message format is
used, the protocol is easily implemented and can be used in a variety of
solicited or unsolicited polling mechanisms.

It should be recognized that clock synchronization requires by its
nature long periods and multiple comparisons in order to maintain
accurate timekeeping. While only a few measurements are usually adequate
to reliably determine local time to within a second or so, periods of
many hours and dozens of measurements are required to resolve oscillator
skew and maintain local time to the order of a millisecond. Thus, the
accuracy achieved is directly dependent on the time taken to achieve it.
Fortunately, the frequency of measurements can be quite low and almost
always non-intrusive to normal net operations.

Implementation Model

In what may be the most common client/server model a client sends an NTP
message to one or more servers and processes the replies as received.
The server interchanges addresses and ports, overwrites certain fields
in the message, recalculates the checksum and returns the message
immediately. Information included in the NTP message allows the client
to determine the server time with respect to local time and adjust the
local clock accordingly. In addition, the message includes information
to calculate the expected timekeeping accuracy and reliability, as well
as select the best from possibly several servers.

While the client/server model may suffice for use on local nets
involving a public server and perhaps many workstation clients, the full
generality of NTP requires distributed participation of a number of
client/servers or peers arranged in a dynamically reconfigurable,
hierarchically distributed configuration. It also requires sophisticated
algorithms for association management, data manipulation and local-clock
control. Throughout the remainder of this document the term host refers
to an instantiation of the protocol on a local processor, while the term
peer refers to the instantiation of the protocol on a remote processor
connected by a network path.

Figure 1<$&fig1> shows an implementation model for a host including
three processes sharing a partitioned data base, with a partition
dedicated to each peer, and interconnected by a message-passing system.
The transmit process, driven by independent timers for each peer,
collects information in the data base and sends NTP messages to the
peers. Each message contains the local timestamp when the message is
sent, together with previously received timestamps and other information
necessary to determine the hierarchy and manage the association. The
message transmission rate is determined by the accuracy required of the
local clock, as well as the accuracies of its peers.

The receive process receives NTP messages and perhaps messages in other
protocols, as well as information from directly connected radio clocks.
When an NTP message is received, the offset between the peer clock and
the local clock is computed and incorporated into the data base along
with other information useful for error determination and peer
selection. A filtering algorithm described in Section 4 improves the
accuracy by discarding inferior data.

The update procedure is initiated upon receipt of a message and at other
times. It processes the offset data from each peer and selects the best
one using the algorithms of Section 4. This may involve many
observations of a few peers or a few observations of many peers,
depending on the accuracies required.

The local-clock process operates upon the offset data produced by the
update procedure and adjusts the phase and frequency of the local clock
using the mechanisms described in Section 5. This may result in either a
step-change or a gradual phase adjustment of the local clock to reduce
the offset to zero. The local clock provides a stable source of time
information to other users of the system and for subsequent reference by
NTP itself.

Network Configurations

The synchronization subnet is a connected network of primary and
secondary time servers, clients and interconnecting transmission paths.
A primary time server is directly synchronized to a primary reference
source, usually a radio clock. A secondary time server derives
synchronization, possibly via other secondary servers, from a primary
server over network paths possibly shared with other services. Under
normal circumstances it is intended that the synchronization subnet of
primary and secondary servers assumes a hierarchical-master-slave
configuration with the primary servers at the root and secondary servers
of decreasing accuracy at successive levels toward the leaves.

Following conventions established by the telephone industry [BEL86], the
accuracy of each server is defined by a number called the stratum, with
the topmost level (primary servers) assigned as one and each level
downwards (secondary servers) in the hierarchy assigned as one greater
than the preceding level. With current technology and available radio
clocks, single-sample accuracies in the order of a millisecond can be
achieved at the network interface of a primary server. Accuracies of
this order require special care in the design and implementation of the
operating system and the local-clock mechanism, such as described in
Section 5.

As the stratum increases from one, the single-sample accuracies
achievable will degrade depending on the network paths and local-clock
stabilities. In order to avoid the tedious calculations [BRA80]
necessary to estimate errors in each specific configuration, it is
useful to assume the mean measurement errors accumulate approximately in
proportion to the measured delay and dispersion relative to the root of
the synchronization subnet. Appendix H contains an analysis of errors,
including a derivation of maximum error as a function of delay and
dispersion, where the latter quantity depends on the precision of the
timekeeping system, frequency tolerance of the local clock and various
residuals. Assuming the primary servers are synchronized to standard
time within known accuracies, this provides a reliable, determistic
specification on timekeeping accuracies throughout the synchronization
subnet.

Again drawing from the experience of the telephone industry, which
learned such lessons at considerable cost [ABA89], the synchronization
subnet topology should be organized to produce the highest accuracy, but
must never be allowed to form a loop. An additional factor is that each
increment in stratum involves a potentially unreliable time server which
introduces additional measurement errors. The selection algorithm used
in NTP uses a variant of the Bellman-Ford distributed routing algorithm
[37] to compute the minimum-weight spanning trees rooted on the primary
servers. The distance metric used by the algorithm consists of the
(scaled) stratum plus the synchronization distance, which itself
consists of the dispersion plus one-half the absolute delay. Thus, the
synchronization path will always take the minimum number of servers to
the root, with ties resolved on the basis of maximum error.

As a result of this design, the subnet reconfigures automatically in a
hierarchical-master-slave configuration to produce the most accurate and
reliable time, even when one or more primary or secondary servers or the
network paths between them fail. This includes the case where all normal
primary servers (e.g., highly accurate WWVB radio clock operating at the
lowest synchronization distances) on a possibly partitioned subnet fail,
but one or more backup primary servers (e.g., less accurate WWV radio
clock operating at higher synchronization distances) continue operation.
However, should all primary servers throughout the subnet fail, the
remaining secondary servers will synchronize among themselves while
distances ratchet upwards to a preselected maximum <169>infinity<170>
due to the well-known properties of the Bellman-Ford algorithm. Upon
reaching the maximum on all paths, a server will drop off the subnet and
free-run using its last determined time and frequency. Since these
computations are expected to be very precise, especially in frequency,
even extended outage periods can result in timekeeping errors not
greater than a few milliseconds per day with appropriately stabilized
oscillators (see Section 5).

In the case of multiple primary servers, the spanning-tree computation
will usually select the server at minimum synchronization distance.
However, when these servers are at approximately the same distance, the
computation may result in random selections among them as the result of
normal dispersive delays. Ordinarily, this does not degrade accuracy as
long as any discrepancy between the primary servers is small compared to
the synchronization distance. If not, the filter and selection
algorithms will select the best of the available servers and cast out
outlyers as intended.

Network Time Protocol

This section consists of a formal definition of the Network Time
Protocol, including its data formats, entities, state variables, events
and event-processing procedures. The specification is based on the
implementation model illustrated in Figure 1, but it is not intended
that this model is the only one upon which a specification can be based.
In particular, the specification is intended to illustrate and clarify
the intrinsic operations of NTP, as well as to serve as a foundation for
a more rigorous, comprehensive and verifiable specification.

Data Formats

All mathematical operations expressed or implied herein are in two's-
complement, fixed-point arithmetic. Data are specified as integer or
fixed-point quantities, with bits numbered in big-endian fashion from
zero starting at the left, or high-order, position. Since various
implementations may scale externally derived quantities for internal
use, neither the precision nor decimal-point placement for fixed-point
quantities is specified. Unless specified otherwise, all quantities are
unsigned and may occupy the full field width with an implied zero
preceding bit zero. Hardware and software packages designed to work with
signed quantities will thus yield surprising results when the most
significant (sign) bit is set. It is suggested that externally derived,
unsigned fixed-point quantities such as timestamps be shifted right one
bit for internal use, since the precision represented by the full field
width is seldom justified.

Since NTP timestamps are cherished data and, in fact, represent the main
product of the protocol, a special timestamp format has been
established. NTP timestamps are represented as a 64-bit unsigned fixed-
point number, in seconds relative to 0h on 1 January 1900. The integer
part is in the first 32 bits and the fraction part in the last 32 bits.
This format allows convenient multiple-precision arithmetic and
conversion to Time Protocol representation (seconds), but does
complicate the conversion to ICMP Timestamp message representation
(milliseconds). The precision of this representation is about 200
picoseconds, which should be adequate for even the most exotic
requirements.

Timestamps are determined by copying the current value of the local
clock to a timestamp when some significant event, such as the arrival of
a message, occurs. In order to maintain the highest accuracy, it is
important that this be done as close to the hardware or software driver
associated with the event as possible. In particular, departure
timestamps should be redetermined for each link-level retransmission. In
some cases a particular timestamp may not be available, such as when the
host is rebooted or the protocol first starts up. In these cases the 64-
bit field is set to zero, indicating the value is invalid or undefined.

Note that since some time in 1968 the most significant bit (bit 0 of the
integer part) has been set and that the 64-bit field will overflow some
time in 2036. Should NTP be in use in 2036, some external means will be
necessary to qualify time relative to 1900 and time relative to 2036
(and other multiples of 136 years). Timestamped data requiring such
qualification will be so precious that appropriate means should be
readily available. There will exist an 200-picosecond interval,
henceforth ignored, every 136 years when the 64-bit field will be zero
and thus considered invalid.

State Variables and Parameters

Following is a summary of the various state variables and parameters
used by the protocol. They are separated into classes of system
variables, which relate to the operating system environment and local-
clock mechanism; peer variables, which represent the state of the
protocol machine specific to each peer; packet variables, which
represent the contents of the NTP message; and parameters, which
represent fixed configuration constants for all implementations of the
current version. For each class the description of the variable is
followed by its name and the procedure or value which controls it. Note
that variables are in lower case, while parameters are in upper case.
Additional details on formats and use are presented in later sections
and Appendices.

Common Variables

The following variables are common to two or more of the system, peer
and packet classes. Additional variables are specific to the optional
authentication mechanism as described in Appendix C. When necessary to
distinguish between common variables of the same name, the variable
identifier will be used.

Peer Address (peer.peeraddr, pkt.peeraddr), Peer Port (peer.peerport,
pkt.peerport): These are the 32-bit Internet address and 16-bit port
number of the peer.

Host Address (peer.hostaddr, pkt.hostaddr), Host Port (peer.hostport,
pkt.hostport): These are the 32-bit Internet address and 16-bit port
number of the host. They are included among the state variables to
support multi-homing.

Leap Indicator (sys.leap, peer.leap, pkt.leap): This is a two-bit code
warning of an impending leap second to be inserted in the NTP timescale.
The bits are set before 23:59 on the day of insertion and reset after
00:00 on the following day. This causes the number of seconds (rollover
interval) in the day of insertion to be increased or decreased by one.
In the case of primary servers the bits are set by operator
intervention, while in the case of secondary servers the bits are set by
the protocol. The two bits, bit 0 and bit 1, respectively, are coded as
follows:
@Z_TBL_BEG = COLUMNS(2), DIMENSION(IN), COLWIDTHS(E1,E8), WIDTH(5.0000),
ABOVE(.0830), BELOW(.0830), HGUTTER(.0560), KEEP(OFF), ALIGN(CT)

@Z_TBL_BODY = TABLE TEXT, TABLE TEXT

00, no warning

01, last minute has 61 seconds

10, last minute has 59 seconds

11, alarm condition (clock not synchronized)

@Z_TBL_END =

In all except the alarm condition (112), NTP itself does nothing with
these bits, except pass them on to the time-conversion routines that are
not part of NTP. The alarm condition occurs when, for whatever reason,
the local clock is not synchronized, such as when first coming up or
after an extended period when no primary reference source is available.

Mode (peer.mode, pkt.mode): This is an integer indicating the
association mode, with values coded as follows:

@Z_TBL_BEG = COLUMNS(2), DIMENSION(IN), COLWIDTHS(E1,E8), WIDTH(5.0000),
ABOVE(.0830), BELOW(.0830), HGUTTER(.0560), KEEP(OFF), ALIGN(CT)

@Z_TBL_BODY = TABLE TEXT, TABLE TEXT

0, unspecified

1, symmetric active

2, symmetric passive

3, client

4, server

5, broadcast

6, reserved for NTP control messages

7, reserved for private use

@Z_TBL_END =

Stratum (sys.stratum, peer.stratum, pkt.stratum): This is an integer
indicating the stratum of the local clock, with values defined as
follows:

@Z_TBL_BEG = COLUMNS(2), DIMENSION(IN), COLWIDTHS(E1,E8), WIDTH(5.0000),
ABOVE(.0830), BELOW(.0830), HGUTTER(.0560), KEEP(OFF), ALIGN(CT)

@Z_TBL_BODY = TABLE TEXT, TABLE TEXT

0, unspecified

1, primary reference (e.g.,, calibrated atomic clock,, radio clock)

2-255, secondary reference (via NTP)

@Z_TBL_END =

For comparison purposes a value of zero is considered greater than any
other value. Note that the maximum value of the integer encoded as a
packet variable is limited by the parameter NTP.MAXSTRATUM.

Poll Interval (sys.poll, peer.hostpoll, peer.peerpoll, pkt.poll): This
is a signed integer indicating the minimum interval between transmitted
messages, in seconds as a power of two. For instance, a value of six
indicates a minimum interval of 64 seconds.

Precision (sys.precision, peer.precision, pkt.precision): This is a
signed integer indicating the precision of the various clocks, in
seconds to the nearest power of two. The value must be rounded to the
next larger power of two; for instance, a 50-Hz (20 ms) or 60-Hz (16.67
ms) power-frequency clock would be assigned the value -5 (31.25 ms),
while a 1000-Hz (1 ms) crystal-controlled clock would be assigned the
value -9 (1.95 ms).

Root Delay (sys.rootdelay, peer.rootdelay, pkt.rootdelay): This is a
signed fixed-point number indicating the total roundtrip delay to the
primary reference source at the root of the synchronization subnet, in
seconds. Note that this variable can take on both positive and negative
values, depending on clock precision and skew.

Root Dispersion (sys.rootdispersion, peer.rootdispersion,
pkt.rootdispersion): This is a signed fixed-point number indicating the
maximum error relative to the primary reference source at the root of
the synchronization subnet, in seconds. Only positive values greater
than zero are possible.

Reference Clock Identifier (sys.refid, peer.refid, pkt.refid): This is a
32-bit code identifying the particular reference clock. In the case of
stratum 0 (unspecified) or stratum 1 (primary reference source), this is
a four-octet, left-justified, zero-padded ASCII string, for example (see
