Appendix G.

It is important to note that the particular implementation described is
only one of possibly many implementations that provide equivalent
functionality. However, it is equally important to note that the clock
model described in Appendix G and which is the basis of the
implementation involves a particular kind of control-feedback loop that
is potentially unstable if the design rules are broken. The model and
parameter described in Appendix G are designed to provide accurate and
stable time under typical operating conditions using conventional
hardware and in the face of disruptions in hardware or network
connectivity. The parameters have been engineered for reliable operation
in a multi-level hierarchical subnet where unstable operation at one
level can disrupt possibly many other levels.

Fuzzball Implementation

The Fuzzball local clock consists of a collection of hardware and
software registers, together with a set of algorithms, which implement a
logical clock that functions as a disciplined oscillator and
synchronizes to an external source. Following is a description of its
components and manner of operation. Note that all arithmetic is two's
complement integer and all shifts <169><<<<<170> and <169>>>>><170> are
arithmetic (sign-fill for right shifts and zero-fill for left shifts).
Also note that <$Ex~<< <<~n> is equivalent to <$Ex~>> >>~-~n>.

The principal components of the local clock are shown in Figure
3,<$&fig3> in which the fraction points shown are relative to whole
milliseconds. The 48-bit Clock register and 32-bit Prescaler function as
a disciplined oscillator which increments in milliseconds relative to
midnight at the fraction point. The 32-bit Clock-Adjust register is used
to adjust the oscillator phase in gradual steps to avoid discontinuities
in the indicated timescale. Its contents are designated x in the
following. The 32-bit Skew-Compensation register is used to trim the
oscillator frequency by adding small phase increments at periodic
adjustment intervals and can compensate for frequency errors as much as
.01% or <F128M>æ<F255D>100 ppm. Its contents are designated y in the
following. The 16-bit Watchdog counter and 32-bit Compliance register
are used to determine validity, as well as establish the PLL bandwidth
and poll interval (see Appendix G). The contents of the Compliance
register are designated z in the following. The 32-bit PPS-Adjust
register is used to hold a precision time adjustment when a source of 1-
pps pulses is available, while the 8-bit PPS counter is used to verify
presence of these pulses. The two-bit Flags register contains the two
leap bits described elsewhere (leap).

All registers except the Prescaler register are ordinarily implemented
in memory. In typical clock interface designs such as the DEC KWV11-C,
the Prescaler register is implemented as a 16-bit buffered counter
driven by a quartz-controlled oscillator at some multiple of 1000 Hz. A
counter overflow is signalled by an interrupt, which results in an
increment of the Clock register at the bit corresponding to the
overflow. The time of day is determined by reading the Prescaler
register, which does not disturb the counting process, and adding its
value to that of the Clock register with fraction points aligned as
shown and with unimplemented low-order bits set to zero. In other
interface designs, such as the LSI-11 event-line mechanism, each tick of
the clock is signalled by an interrupt at intervals of 16-2/3 ms or 20
ms, depending on interface and mains frequency. When this occurs the
appropriate increment in fractional milliseconds is added to the Clock
register.

The various parameters used are summarized in Table 6, in which certain
parameters have been rescaled from those given in Appendix G due to the
units here being in milliseconds.<$&tab6> When the system is
initialized, all registers and counters are cleared and the leap bits
set to 112 (unsynchronized). At adjustment intervals of CLOCK.ADJ
seconds CLOCK.ADJ is subtracted from the PPS counter, but only if the
previous contents of the PPS counter are greater than zero. Also,
CLOCK.ADJ is added to the Watchdog counter, but the latter is clamped
not to exceed NTP.MAXAGE divided by CLOCK.ADJ (one full day). In
addition, if the Watchdog counter reaches this value, the leap bits are
set to 112 (unsynchronized).

In some system configurations a precise source of timing information is
available in the form of a train of timing pulses spaced at one-second
intervals. Usually, this is in addition to a source of timecode
information, such as a radio clock or even NTP itself, to number the
seconds, minutes, hours and days. In typical clock interface designs
such as the DEC KWV11-C, a special input is provided which can trigger
an interrupt as each pulse is received. When this happens the PPS
counter is set to CLOCK.PPS and the current time offset is determined in
the usual way. Then, the PPS-Adjust register is set to the time offset
scaled to milliseconds. Finally, if the PPS-Adjust register is greater
than or equal to 500, 1000 is subtracted from its contents. As described
below, the PPS-Adjust register and PPS counters can be used in
conjunction with an ordinary timecode to produce an extremely accurate
local clock.

Gradual Phase Adjustments

Left uncorrected, the local clock runs at the offset and frequency
resulting from its last update. An update is produced by an event that
results in a valid clock selection. It consists of a signed 48-bit
integer in whole milliseconds and fraction, with fraction point to the
left of bit 32. If the magnitude is greater than the maximum aperture
CLOCK.MAX, a step adjustment is required, in which case proceed as
described later. Otherwise, a gradual phase adjustment is performed.
Normally, the update is computed by the NTP algorithms described
previously; however, if the PPS counter is greater than zero, the value
of the PPS-Adjust register is used instead. Let u be a 32-bit quantity
with bits 0-31 set as bits 16-47 of the update. If some of the low-order
bits of the update are unimplemented, they are set as the value of the
sign bit. These operations move the fraction point of u to the left of
bit 16 and minimize the effects of truncation and roundoff errors. Let b
be the number of leading zeros of the absolute value of the Compliance
register and let c be the number of leading zeros of the Watchdog
counter, both of which are easily computed by compact loops. Then, set b
to
<$Eb~=~b~-~16~+~roman CLOCK.COMP>

and clamp it to be not less than zero. This represents the logarithm of
the loop time constant. Then, set c to

<$Ec~=~10~-~c>

and clamp it to be not greater than NTP.MAXPOLL <196> NTP.MINPOLL. This
represents the logarithm of the integration interval since the last
update. The clamps insure stable operation under typical conditions
encountered in the Internet. Then, compute new values for the Clock-
Adjust and Skew-Compensation registers

<$Ex~=~u~>> >>~b> ,
<$Ey~=~y~+~(u~>> >>~(b~+~b~-~c))> .

Finally, compute the exponential average

<$Ez~=~z~+~(u~<< <<~(b~+~ roman CLOCK.MULT)~-~z)~>> >>~ roman
CLOCK.WEIGHT> ,

where the left shift realigns the fraction point for greater precision
and ease of computation.

At each adjustment interval the final clock correction consisting of two
components is determined. The first (phase) component consists of the
quantity

<$Ex~>> >>~ roman CLOCK.PHASE> ,

which is then subtracted from the previous contents of the Clock-Adjust
register to form the new contents of that register. The second
(frequency) component consists of the quantity

<$Ey~>> >>~ roman CLOCK.FREQ> .

The sum of the phase and frequency components is the final clock
correction, which is then added to the Clock register. FInally, the
Watchdog counter is set to zero. Operation continues in this way until a
new correction is introduced.

The value of b computed above can be used to update the poll interval
system variable (sys.poll). This functions as an adaptive parameter that
provides a very valuable feature which reduces the polling overhead,
especially if the clock-combining algorithm described in Appendix F is
used:

<$Eroman sys.poll~<<-~b~+~roman NTP.MINPOLL> .

Under conditions when update noise is high or the hardware oscillator
frequency is changing relatively rapidly due to environmental
conditions, the magnitude of the compliance increases. With the
parameters specified, this causes the loop bandwidth (reciprocal of time
constant) to increase and the poll interval to decrease, eventually to
NTP.MINPOLL seconds. When noise is low and the hardware oscillator very
stable, the compliance decreases, which causes the loop bandwidth to
decrease and the poll interval to increase, eventually to NTP.MAXPOLL
seconds.

The parameters in Table 6 have been selected so that, under good
conditions with updates in the order of a few milliseconds, a precision
of a millisecond per day (about .01 ppm or 10-8), can be achieved. Care
is required in the implementation to insure monotonicity of the Clock
register and to preserve the highest precision while minimizing the
propagation of roundoff errors. Since all of the multiply/divide
operations (except those involved with the 1-pps pulses) computed in
real time can be approximated by bitwise-shift operations, it is not
necessary to implement a full multiply/divide capability in hardware or
software.

In the various implementations of NTP for many Unix-based systems it has
been the common experience that the single most important factor
affecting local-clock stability is the matching of the phase and
frequency coefficients to the particular kernel implementation. It is
vital that these coefficients be engineered according to the model
values, for otherwise the PLL can fail to track normal oscillator
variations and can even become unstable.

Step Phase Adjustments

When the magnitude of a correction exceeds the maximum aperture
CLOCK.MAX, the possibility exists that the clock is so far out of
synchronization with the reference source that the best action is an
immediate and wholesale replacement of Clock register contents, rather
than in gradual adjustments as described above. However, in cases where
the sample variance is extremely high, it is prudent to disbelieve a
step change, unless a significant interval has elapsed since the last
gradual adjustment. Therefore, if a step change is indicated and the
Watchdog counter is less than the preconfigured value CLOCK.MINSTEP, the
update is ignored and the local-clock procedure exits. These safeguards
are especially useful in those system configurations using a calibrated
atomic clock or LORAN-C receiver in conjunction with a separate source
of seconds-numbering information, such as a radio clock or NTP peer.

If a step change is indicated the update is added directly to the Clock
register and the Clock-Adjust register and Watchdog counter both set to
zero, but the other registers are left undisturbed. Since a step change
invalidates data currently in the clock filters, the leap bits are set
to 112 (unsynchronized) and, as described elsewhere, the clear procedure
is called to purge the clock filters and state variables for all peers.
In practice, the necessity to perform a step change is rare and usually
occurs when the local host or reference source is rebooted, for example.
This is fortunate, since step changes can result in the local clock
apparently running backward, as well as incorrect delay and offset
measurements of the synchronization mechanism itself.

Considerable experience with the Internet environment suggests the
values of CLOCK.MAX tabulated in Table 6 as appropriate. In practice,
these values are exceeded with a single time-server source only under
conditions of the most extreme congestion or when multiple failures of
nodes or links have occurred. The most common case when the maximum is
exceeded is when the time-server source is changed and the time
indicated by the new and old sources exceeds the maximum due to
systematic errors in the primary reference source or large differences
in path delays. It is recommended that implementations include
provisions to tailor CLOCK.MAX for specific situations. The amount that
CLOCK.MAX can be increased without violating the monotonicity
requirement depends on the Clock register increment. For an increment of
10 ms, as used in many workstations, the value shown in Table 6 can be
increased by a factor of five.

Implementation Issues

The basic NTP robustness model is that a host has no other means to
verify time other than NTP itself. In some equipment a battery-backed
clock/calendar is available for a sanity check. If such a device is
available, it should be used only to confirm sanity of the timekeeping
system, not as the source of system time. In the common assumption (not
always justified) that the clock/calendar is more reliable, but less
accurate, than the NTP synchronization subnet, the recommended approach
at initialization is to set the Clock register as determined from the
clock/calendar and the other registers, counters and flags as described
above. On subsequent updates if the time offset is greater than a
configuration parameter (e.g., 1000 seconds), then the update should be
discarded and an error condition reported. Some implementations
periodically record the contents of the Skew-Compensation register in
stable storage such as a system file or NVRAM and retrieve this value at
initialization. This can significantly reduce the time to converge to
the nominal stability and accuracy regime.

Conversion from NTP format to the common date and time formats used by
application programs is simplified if the internal local-clock format
uses separate date and time variables. The time variable is designed to
roll over at 24 hours, give or take a leap second as determined by the
leap-indicator bits, with its overflows (underflows) incrementing
(decrementing) the date variable. The date and time variables then
indicate the number of days and seconds since some previous reference
time, but uncorrected for intervening leap seconds.

On the day prior to the insertion of a leap second the leap bits
(sys.leap) are set at the primary servers, presumably by manual means.
Subsequently, these bits show up at the local host and are passed to the
local-clock procedure. This causes the modulus of the time variable,
which is the length of the current day, to be increased or decreased by
one second as appropriate. Immediately following insertion the leap bits
are reset. Additional discussion on this issue can be found in Appendix
E.

Lack of a comprehensive mechanism to administer the leap bits in the
primary servers is presently an awkward problem better suited to a
comprehensive network-management mechanism yet to be developed. As a
practical matter and unless specific provisions have been made
otherwise, currently manufactured radio clocks have no provisions for
leap seconds, either automatic or manual. Thus, when a leap actually
occurs, the radio must resynchronize to the broadcast timecode, which
may take from a few minutes to some hours. Unless special provisions are
made, a primary server might leap to the new timescale, only to be
yanked back to the previous timescale when it next synchronizes to the
radio. Subsequently, the server will be yanked forward again when the
radio itself resynchronizes to the broadcast timecode.

This problem can not be reliably avoided using any selection algorithm,
since there will always exist an interval of at least a couple of
minutes and possibly as much as some hours when some or all radios will
be out of synchronization with the broadcast timecode and only after the
majority of them have resynchronized will the subnet settle down. The
CLOCK.MINSTEP delay is designed to cope with this problem by forcing a
minimum interval since the last gradual adjustment was made before
allowing a step change to occur. Therefore, until the radio
resynchronizes, it will continue on the old timescale, which is one
second off the local clock after the leap and outside the maximum
aperture CLOCK.MAX permitted for gradual phase adjustments. When the
radio eventually resynchronizes, it will almost certainly come up within
the aperture and again become the reference source. Thus, even in the
unlikely case when the local clock incorrectly leaps, the server will go
no longer than CLOCK.MINSTEP seconds before resynchronizing.

Acknowledgments

Many people contributed to the contents of this document, which was
thoroughly debated by electronic mail and debugged using two different
prototype implementations for the Unix 4.3bsd operating system, one
written by Louis Mamakos and Michael Petry of the University of Maryland
and the other by Dennis Ferguson of the University of Toronto. Another
implementation for the Fuzzball operating system [MIL88b] was written by
the author. Many individuals to numerous to mention meticulously tested
the several beta-test prototype versions and ruthlessly smoked out the
bugs, both in the code and the specification. Especially useful were
comments from Dennis Ferguson and Bill Sommerfeld, as well as
discussions with Joe Comuzzi and others at Digital Equipment
Corporation.

References

[ABA89]

Abate, et al. AT&T's new approach to the synchronization of
telecommunication networks. IEEE Communications Magazine (April 1989),
35-45.

[ALL74a]

Allan, D.W., J.H. Shoaf and D. Halford. Statistics of time and frequency
data analysis. In: Blair, B.E. (Ed.). Time and Frequency Theory and
Fundamentals. National Bureau of Standards Monograph 140, U.S.
Department of Commerce, 1974, 151-204.

[ALL74b]

Allan, D.W., J.E. Gray and H.E. Machlan. The National Bureau of
Standards atomic time scale: generation, stability, accuracy and
accessibility. In: Blair, B.E. (Ed.). Time and Frequency Theory and
Fundamentals. National Bureau of Standards Monograph 140, U.S.
Department of Commerce, 1974, 205-231.

[BEL86]

Bell Communications Research. Digital Synchronization Network Plan.
Technical Advisory TA-NPL-000436, 1 November 1986.

[BER87]

Bertsekas, D., and R. Gallager. Data Networks. Prentice-Hall, Englewood
Cliffs, NJ, 1987.

[BLA74]

Blair, B.E. Time and frequency dissemination: an overview of principles
and techniques. In: Blair, B.E. (Ed.). Time and Frequency Theory and
Fundamentals. National Bureau of Standards Monograph 140, U.S.
Department of Commerce, 1974, 233-314.

[BRA80]

Braun, W.B. Short term frequency effects in networks of coupled
oscillators. IEEE Trans. Communications COM-28, 8 (August 1980), 1269-
