Appendix B. NTP Control Messages

In a comprehensive network-management environment, facilities are
presumed available to perform routine NTP control and monitoring
functions, such as setting the leap-indicator bits at the primary
servers, adjusting the various system parameters and monitoring regular
operations. Ordinarily, these functions can be implemented using a
network-management protocol such as SNMP and suitable extensions to the
MIB database. However, in those cases where such facilities are not
available, these functions can be implemented using special NTP control
messages described herein. These messages are intended for use only in
systems where no other management facilities are available or
appropriate, such as in dedicated-function bus peripherals. Support for
these messages is not required in order to conform to this
specification.

The NTP Control Message has the value 6 specified in the mode field of
the first octet of the NTP header and is formatted as shown below. The
format of the data field is specific to each command or response;
however, in most cases the format is designed to be constructed and
viewed by humans and so is coded in free-form ASCII. This facilitates
the specification and implementation of simple management tools in the
absence of fully evolved network-management facilities. As in ordinary
NTP messages, the authenticator field follows the data field. If the
authenticator is used the data field is zero-padded to a 32-bit
boundary, but the padding bits are not considered part of the data field
and are not included in the field count.

IP hosts are not required to reassemble datagrams larger than 576
octets; however, some commands or responses may involve more data than
will fit into a single datagram. Accordingly, a simple reassembly
feature is included in which each octet of the message data is numbered
starting with zero. As each fragment is transmitted the number of its
first octet is inserted in the offset field and the number of octets is
inserted in the count field. The more-data (M) bit is set in all
fragments except the last.

Most control functions involve sending a command and receiving a
response, perhaps involving several fragments. The sender chooses a
distinct, nonzero sequence number and sets the status field and R and E
bits to zero. The responder interprets the opcode and additional
information in the data field, updates the status field, sets the R bit
to one and returns the three 32-bit words of the header along with
additional information in the data field. In case of invalid message
format or contents the responder inserts a code in the status field,
sets the R and E bits to one and, optionally, inserts a diagnostic
message in the data field.

Some commands read or write system variables and peer variables for an
association identified in the command. Others read or write variables
associated with a radio clock or other device directly connected to a
source of primary synchronization information. To identify which type of
variable and association a 16-bit association identifier is used. System
variables are indicated by the identifier zero. As each association is
mobilized a unique, nonzero identifier is created for it. These
identifiers are used in a cyclic fashion, so that the chance of using an
old identifier which matches a newly created association is remote. A
management entity can request a list of current identifiers and
subsequently use them to read and write variables for each association.
An attempt to use an expired identifier results in an exception
response, following which the list can be requested again.

Some exception events, such as when a peer becomes reachable or
unreachable, occur spontaneously and are not necessarily associated with
a command. An implementation may elect to save the event information for
later retrieval or to send an asynchronous response (called a trap) or
both. In case of a trap the IP address and port number is determined by
a previous command and the sequence field is set as described below.
Current status and summary information for the latest exception event is
returned in all normal responses. Bits in the status field indicate
whether an exception has occurred since the last response and whether
more than one exception has occurred.

Commands need not necessarily be sent by an NTP peer, so ordinary
access-control procedures may not apply; however, the optional
mask/match mechanism suggested elsewhere in this document provides the
capability to control access by mode number, so this could be used to
limit access for control messages (mode 6) to selected address ranges.

NTP Control Message Format

The format of the NTP Control Message header, which immediately follows
the UDP header, is shown in Figure 5<$&fig5>. Following is a description
of its fields. Bit positions marked as zero are reserved and should
always be transmitted as zero.

Version Number (VN): This is a three-bit integer indicating the NTP
version number, currently three (3).

Mode: This is a three-bit integer indicating the mode. It must have the
value 6, indicating an NTP control message.

Response Bit (R): Set to zero for commands, one for responses.

Error Bit (E): Set to zero for normal response, one for error response.

More Bit (M): Set to zero for last fragment, one for all others.

Operation Code (Op): This is a five-bit integer specifying the command
function. Values currently defined include the following:

@Z_TBL_BEG = COLUMNS(2), DIMENSION(IN), COLWIDTHS(E1,E8), WIDTH(5.0000),
ABOVE(.0830), BELOW(.0830), HGUTTER(.0560), KEEP(OFF), ALIGN(CT)

@Z_TBL_BODY = TABLE TEXT, TABLE TEXT

0, reserved

1, read status command/response

2, read variables command/response

3, write variables command/response

4, read clock variables command/response

5, write clock variables command/response

6, set trap address/port command/response

7, trap response

8-31, reserved

@Z_TBL_END =

Sequence: This is a 16-bit integer indicating the sequence number of the
command or response.

Status: This is a 16-bit code indicating the current status of the
system, peer or clock, with values coded as described in following
sections.

Association ID: This is a 16-bit integer identifying a valid
association.

Offset: This is a 16-bit integer indicating the offset, in octets, of
the first octet in the data area.

Count: This is a 16-bit integer indicating the length of the data field,
in octets.
Data: This contains the message data for the command or response. The
maximum number of data octets is 468.

Authenticator (optional): When the NTP authentication mechanism is
implemented, this contains the authenticator information defined in
