2.5, 5, 10, 15 and 20 MHz from Fort Collins, CO (WWV), and Kauai, HI
(WWVH). Signal propagation is usually by reflection from the upper
ionospheric layers, which vary in height and composition throughout the
day and season and result in unpredictable delay variations at the
receiver. The timecode is transmitted over a 60-second interval at a
data rate of 1 bps using a 100-Hz subcarrier on the broadcast signal.
The timecode information includes UTC time-day information, but does not
currently include year or leap-second warning. While these transmissions
and those of Canada from Ottawa, Ontario (CHU), and other countries can
be received over large areas in the western hemisphere, reliable
frequency comparisons can be made only to the order of 10-7 and time
accuracies are limited to the order of a millisecond [BLA74]. Radio
clocks which operate with these transmissions include the Traconex 1020,
which provides accuracies to about ten milliseconds and is priced in the
$1,500 range.

A second service operated by NIST uses low-frequency (LF or CCIR band 5)
transmissions on 60 kHz from Boulder, CO (WWVB), and can be received
over the continental U.S. and adjacent coastal areas. Signal propagation
is via the lower ionospheric layers, which are relatively stable and
have predictable diurnal variations in height. The timecode is
transmitted over a 60-second interval at a rate of 1 pps using periodic
reductions in carrier power. With appropriate receiving and averaging
techniques and corrections for diurnal and seasonal propagation effects,
frequency comparisons to within 10-11 are possible and time accuracies
of from a few to 50 microseconds can be obtained [BLA74]. Some countries
in western Europe operate similar services which use transmissions on 60
kHz from Rugby, U.K. (MSF), and on 77.5 kHz from Mainflingen, West
Germany (DCF77). The timecode information includes UTC time-day-year
information and leap-second warning. Radio clocks which operate with
these transmissions include the Spectracom 8170 and Kinemetrics/TrueTime
60-DC and LF-DC, which provide accuracies to a millisecond or less and
are priced in the $2,500 range. However, these receivers do not extract
the year information and leap-second warning.

The third service operated by NIST uses ultra-high frequency (UHF or
CCIR band 9) transmissions on about 468 MHz from the Geosynchronous
Orbit Environmental Satellites (GOES), three of which cover the western
hemisphere. The timecode is interleaved with messages used to
interrogate remote sensors and consists of 60 4-bit binary-coded decimal
words transmitted over an interval of 30 seconds. The timecode
information includes UTC time-day-year information and leap-second
warning. Radio clocks which operate with these transmissions include the
Kinemetrics/TrueTime 468-DC, which provides accuracies to 0.5 ms and is
priced in the $6,000 range. However, this receiver does not extract the
year information and leap-second warning.

The U.S. Department of Defense is developing the Global Positioning
System (GPS) for worldwide precision navigation. This system will
eventually provide 24-hour worldwide coverage using a constellation of
24 satellites in 12-hour orbits. For time-transfer applications GPS has
a potential accuracy in the order of a few nanoseconds; however, various
considerations of defense policy may limit accuracy to hundreds of
nanoseconds [VAN84]. The timecode information includes GPS time and UTC
correction; however, there appears to be no leap-second warning. Radio
clocks which operate with these transmissions include the
Kinemetrics/TrueTime GPS-DC, which provides accuracies to 200 <$Emu>s
and is priced in the $12,000 range. However, since only about half the
satellites have been launched, expensive rubidium or quartz oscillators
are necessary to preserve accuracy during outages. Also, since this is a
single-channel receiver, it must be supplied with geographic coordinates
within a degree from an external source before operation begins.

The U.S. Coast Guard, along with agencies of other countries, has
operated the LORAN-C [FRA82] radionavigation system for many years. It
currently provides time-transfer accuracies of less than a microsecond
and eventually may achieve 100 ns within the ground-wave coverage area
of a few hundred kilometers from the transmitter. Beyond the ground wave
area signal propagation is via the lower ionospheric layers, which
decreases accuracies to the order of 50 us. With the recent addition of
the Mid-Continent Chain, the deployment of LORAN-C transmitters now
provides complete coverage of the U.S. LORAN-C timing receivers, such as
the Austron 2000, are specialized and extremely expensive (up to
$20,000). They are used primarily to monitor local cesium clocks and are
not suited for unattended, automatic operation. While the LORAN-C system
provides a highly accurate frequency and time reference within the
ground wave area, there is no timecode modulation, so the receiver must
be supplied with UTC time to within a few tens of seconds from an
external source before operation begins.

The OMEGA [VAS78] radionavigation system operated by the U.S. Navy and
other countries consists of eight very-low-frequency (VLF or CCIR band
4) transmitters operating on frequencies from 10.2 to 13.1 kHz and
providing 24-hour worldwide coverage. With appropriate receiving and
averaging techniques and corrections for propagation effects, frequency
comparisons and time accuracies are comparable to the LF systems, but
with worldwide coverage [BLA74]. Radio clocks which operate with these
transmissions include the Kinemetrics/TrueTime OM-DC, which provides
accuracies to 1 ms and is priced in the $3,500 range. While the OMEGA
system provides a highly accurate frequency reference, there is no
timecode modulation, so the receiver must be supplied with geographic
coordinates within a degree and UTC time within five seconds from an
external source before operation begins. There are several other VLF
services intended primarily for worldwide data communications with
characteristics similar to OMEGA. These services can be used in a manner
similar to OMEGA, but this requires specialized techniques not suited
for unattended, automatic operation.

Note that not all transmission formats used by NIST radio broadcast
services [NBS79] and no currently available radio clocks include
provisions for year information and leap-second warning. This
information must be determined from other sources. NTP includes
provisions to distribute advance warnings of leap seconds using the
leap-indicator bits described in the NTP specification. The protocol is
designed so that these bits can be set manually or by the radio timecode
at the primary time servers and then automatically distributed
throughout the synchronization subnet to all other time servers.
Calendar Systems

The calendar systems used in the ancient world reflect the agricultural,
political and ritual needs characteristic of the societies in which they
flourished. Astronomical observations to establish the winter and summer
solstices were in use three to four millennia ago. By the 14th century
BC the Shang Chinese had established the solar year as 365.25 days and
the lunar month as 29.5 days. The lunisolar calendar, in which the
ritual month is based on the Moon and the agricultural year on the Sun,
was used throughout the ancient Near East (except Egypt) and Greece from
the third millennium BC. Early calendars used either thirteen lunar
months of 28 days or twelve alternating lunar months of 29 and 30 days
and haphazard means to reconcile the 354/364-day lunar year with the
365-day vague solar year.

The ancient Egyptian lunisolar calendar had twelve 30-day lunar months,
but was guided by the seasonal appearance of the star Sirius (Sothis).
In order to reconcile this calendar with the solar year, a civil
calendar was invented by adding five intercalary days for a total of 365
days. However, in time it was observed that the civil year was about
one-fourth day shorter than the actual solar year and thus would precess
relative to it over a 1460-year cycle called the Sothic cycle. Along
with the Shang Chinese, the ancient Egyptians had thus established the
solar year at 365.25 days, or within about 11 minutes of the present
measured value. In 432 BC, about a century after the Chinese had done
so, the Greek astronomer Meton calculated there were 110 lunar months of
29 days and 125 lunar months of 30 days for a total of 235 lunar months
in 6940 solar days, or just over 19 years. The 19-year cycle, called the
Metonic cycle, established the lunar month at 29.532 solar days, or
within about two minutes of the present measured value.

The Roman republican calendar was based on a lunar year and by 50 BC was
eight weeks out of step with the solar year. Julius Caesar invited the
Alexandrian astronomer Sosigenes to redesign the calendar, which led to
the adoption in 46 BC of the Julian calendar. This calendar is based on
a year of 365 days with an intercalary day inserted every four years.
However, for the first 36 years an intercalary day was mistakenly
inserted every three years instead of every four. The result was 12
intercalary days instead of nine, and a series of corrections that was
not complete until 8 AD.

The seven-day Sumerian week was introduced only in the fourth century AD
by Emperor Constantine I. During the Roman era a 15-year census cycle,
called the Indiction cycle, was instituted for taxation purposes. The
sequence of day-names for consecutive occurrences of a particular day of
the year does not recur for 28 years, called the solar cycle. Thus, the
least common multiple of the 28-year solar cycle, 19-year Metonic cycle
and 15-year Indiction cycle results in a grand 7980-year supercycle
called the Julian Era, which began in 4713 BC. A particular combination
of the day of the week, day of the year, phase of the Moon and round of
the census will recur beginning in 3268 AD.

By 1545 the discrepancy in the Julian year relative to the solar year
had accumulated to ten days. In 1582, following suggestions by the
astronomers Christopher Clavius and Luigi Lilio, Pope Gregory XIII
issued a papal bull which decreed, among other things, that the solar
year would consist of 365.2422 days. In order to more closely
approximate the new value, only those centennial years divisible by 400
would be leap years, while the remaining centennial years would not,
making the actual value 365.2425, or within about 26 seconds of the
current measured value. Since the beginning of the Common Era and prior
to 1990 there were 474 intercalary days inserted in the Julian calendar,
but 14 of these were removed in the Gregorian calendar. While the
Gregorian calendar is in use throughout most of the world today, some
countries did not adopt it until early in the twentieth century.
While it remains a fascinating field for time historians, the above
narrative provides conclusive evidence that conjugating calendar dates
of significant events and assigning NTP timestamps to them is
approximate at best. In principle, reliable dating of such events
requires only an accurate count of the days relative to some globally
alarming event, such as a comet passage or supernova explosion; however,
only historically persistent and politically stable societies, such as
the ancient Chinese and Egyptian, and especially the classic Maya,
possessed the means and will to do so.

The Modified Julian Day System

In order to measure the span of the universe or the decay of the proton,
it is necessary to have a standard day-numbering plan. Accordingly, the
International Astronomical Union has adopted the use of the standard
second and Julian Day Number (JDN) to date cosmological events and
related phenomena. The standard day consists of 86,400 standard seconds,
where time is expressed as a fraction of the whole day, and the standard
year consists of 365.25 standard days.

In the scheme devised in 1583 by the French scholar Joseph Julius
Scaliger and named after his father, Julius Caesar Scaliger, JDN 0.0
corresponds to 12h (noon) on the first day of the Julian Era, 1 January
4713 BC. The years prior to the Common Era (BC) are reckoned according
to the Julian calendar, while the years of the Common Era (AD) are
reckoned according to the Gregorian calendar. Since 1 January 1 AD in
the Gregorian calendar corresponds to 3 January 1 in the Julian calendar
[DER90], JDN 1,721,426.0 corresponds to 12h on the first day of the
Common Era, 1 January 1 AD. The Modified Julian Date (MJD), which is
sometimes used to represent dates near our own era in conventional time
and with fewer digits, is defined as MJD = JD <196> 2,400,000.5.
Following the convention that our century began at 0h on 1 January 1900,
at which time the tropical year was already 12h old, that eclectic
instant corresponds to MJD 15,020.0. Thus, the Julian timescale ticks in
standard (atomic) 365.25-day centuries and was set to a given value at
the approximate epoch of a cosmic event which apparently synchronized
the entire human community, the origin of the Common Era.

Determination of Frequency

For many years the most important use of time and frequency information
was for worldwide navigation and space science, which depend on
astronomical observations of the Sun, Moon and stars [JOR85]. Sidereal
time is based on the transit of stars across the celestial meridian of
an observer. The mean sidereal day is 23 hours, 56 minutes and 4.09
seconds, but varies about <F128M>æ<F255D>30 ms throughout the year due
to polar wandering and orbit variations. Ephemeris time is based on
tables with which a standard time interval such as the tropical year -
one complete revolution of the Earth around the Sun - can be determined
through observations of the Sun, Moon and planets. In 1958 the standard
second was defined as 1/31,556,925.9747 of the tropical year that began
this century. On this scale the tropical year is 365.2421987 days and
the lunar month - one complete revolution of the Moon around the Earth -
is 29.53059 days; however, the actual tropical year can be determined
only to an accuracy of about 50 ms and has been increasing by about 5.3
ms per year.

Of the three heavenly oscillators readily apparent to ancient mariners
and astronomers - the Earth rotation about its axis, the Earth
revolution around the Sun and the Moon revolution around the Earth -
none of the three have the intrinsic stability, relative to modern
technology, to serve as a standard reference oscillator. In 1967 the
standard second was redefined as <169>9,192,631,770 periods of the
radiation corresponding to the transition between the two hyperfine
levels of the ground state of the cesium-133 atom.<170> Since 1972 the
time and frequency standards of the world have been based on
International Atomic Time (TAI), which is defined and maintained using
multiple cesium-beam oscillators to an accuracy of a few parts in 1013,
or better than a microsecond per day. Note that, while this provides an
extraordinarily precise timescale, it does not necessarily agree with
conventional solar time and may not in fact even be absolutely uniform,
unless subtle atomic conspiracies can be ruled out.

Determination of Time and Leap Seconds

The International Bureau of Weights and Measures (IBWM) uses
astronomical observations provided by the U.S. Naval Observatory and
other observatories to determine UTC. Starting from apparent mean solar
time as observed, the UT0 timescale is determined using corrections for
Earth orbit and inclination (the Equation of Time, as used by sundials),
the UT1 (navigator's) timescale by adding corrections for polar
migration and the UT2 timescale by adding corrections for known
periodicity variations. While standard frequencies are based on TAI,
conventional civil time is based on UT1, which is presently slowing
relative to TAI by a fraction of a second per year. When the magnitude
of correction approaches 0.7 second, a leap second is inserted or
deleted in the TAI timescale on the last day of June or December.

For the most precise coordination and timestamping of events since 1972,
it is necessary to know when leap seconds are implemented in UTC and how
the seconds are numbered. As specified in CCIR Report 517, which is
reproduced in [BLA74], a leap second is inserted following second
23:59:59 on the last day of June or December and becomes second 23:59:60
of that day. A leap second would be deleted by omitting second 23:59:59
on one of these days, although this has never happened. Leap seconds
were inserted prior to 1 January 1991 on the occasions listed in Table
8<$&tab8> (courtesy U.S. Naval Observatory). Published IBWM corrections
consist not only of leap seconds, which result in step discontinuities
relative to TAI, but 100-ms UT1 adjustments called DUT1, which provide
increased accuracy for navigation and space science.

Note that the NTP time column actually shows the epoch following the
last second of the day given in the UTC date and MJD columns (except for
the first line), which is the precise epoch of insertion. The offset
column shows the cumulative seconds offset between the uncoordinated
(Julian) timescale and the UTC timescale; that is, the number of seconds
to add to the Julian clock in order to maintain nominal agreement with
the UTC clock. Finally, note that the epoch of insertion is relative to
the timescale immediately prior to that epoch; e.g., the epoch of the 31
December 90 insertion is determined on the timescale in effect following
the 31 December 1990 insertion, which means the actual insertion
relative to the Julian clock is fourteen seconds later than the apparent
time on the UTC timescale.

The UTC timescale thus ticks in standard (atomic) seconds and was set to
the value 0h MJD 41,317.0 at the epoch determined by astronomical
observation to be 0h on 1 January 1972 according to the Gregorian
calendar; that is, the inaugural tick of the UTC Era. In fact, the
inaugural tick which synchronized the cosmic oscillators, Julian clock,
UTC clock and Gregorian calendar forevermore was displaced about ten
seconds from the civil clock then in use, while the GPS clock is ahead
of the UTC clock by six seconds in late 1990. Subsequently, the UTC
clock has marched backward relative to the Julian timescale exactly one
second on scheduled occasions at monumental epoches embedded in the
institutional memory of our civilization. Note in passing that leap-
second adjustments affect the number of seconds per day and thus the
number of seconds per year. Apparently, should we choose to worry about
it, the UTC clock, Julian clock and various cosmic clocks will
inexorably drift apart with time until rationalized by some future papal
bull.

The NTP Timescale and Reckoning with UTC
The NTP timescale is based on the UTC timescale, but not necessarily
always coincident with it. At 0h on 1 January 1972 (MJD 41,317.0), the
first tick of the UTC Era, the NTP clock was set to 2,272,060,800,
representing the number of standard seconds since 0h on 1 January 1900
(MJD 15,020.0). The insertion of leap seconds in UTC and subsequently
into NTP does not affect the UTC or NTP oscillator, only the conversion
to conventional civil UTC time. However, since the only institutional
memory available to NTP are the UTC timecode broadcast services, the NTP
timescale is in effect reset to UTC as each timecode is received. Thus,
when a leap second is inserted in UTC and subsequently in NTP, knowledge
of all previous leap seconds is lost.

Another way to describe this is to say there are as many NTP timescales
as historic leap seconds. In effect, a new timescale is established
after each new leap second. Thus, all previous leap seconds, not to
mention the apparent origin of the timescale itself, lurch backward one
second as each new timescale is established. If a clock synchronized to
NTP in 1990 was used to establish the UTC epoch of an event that
occurred in early 1972 without correction, the event would appear
fifteen seconds late relative to UTC. However, NTP primary time servers
resolve the epoch using the broadcast timecode, so that the NTP clock is
set to the broadcast value on the current timescale. As a result, for
the most precise determination of epoch relative to the historic UTC
clock, the user must subtract from the apparent NTP epoch the offsets
shown in Table 8 at the relative epoches shown. This is a feature of
almost all present day time-distribution mechanisms.

The chronometry involved can be illustrated with the help of Figure 8,
which shows the details of seconds numbering just before, during and
after the last scheduled leap insertion at 23:59:59 on 31 December 1989.
Notice the NTP leap bits are set on the day prior to insertion, as
indicated by the <169>+<170> symbols on the figure. Since this makes the
day one second longer than usual, the NTP day rollover will not occur
until the end of the first occurrence of second 800. The UTC time
conversion routines must notice the apparent time and the leap bits and
handle the timescale conversions accordingly. Immediately after the leap
insertion both timescales resume ticking the seconds as if the leap had
never happened. The chronometric correspondence between the UTC and NTP
timescales continues, but NTP has forgotten about all past leap
insertions. In NTP chronometric determination of UTC time intervals
spanning leap seconds will thus be in error, unless the exact times of
insertion are known.

It is possible that individual systems may use internal data formats
other than the NTP timestamp format, which is represented in seconds to
a precision of about 200 picoseconds; however, a persuasive argument
exists to use a two-part representation, one part for whole days (MJD or
some fixed offset from it) and the other for the seconds (or some scaled
value, such as milliseconds). This not only facilitates conversion
between NTP and conventional civil time, but makes the insertion of leap
seconds much easier. All that is required is to change the modulus of
the seconds counter, which on overflow increments the day counter. This
design insures that continuity of the timescale is assured, even if
outside synchronization is lost before, during or after leap-second
insertion. Since timestamp data are unaffected, synchronization is
assured, even if timestamp data are in flight at the instant and
originated before or at that instant.

