1, WWV, WWV HF (band 7) radio

@Z_TBL_END =

In the case of stratum 2 and greater (secondary reference) this is the
four-octet Internet address of the peer selected for synchronization.

Reference Timestamp (sys.reftime, peer.reftime, pkt.reftime): This is
the local time, in timestamp format, when the local clock was last
updated. If the local clock has never been synchronized, the value is
zero.

Originate Timestamp (peer.org, pkt.org): This is the local time, in
timestamp format, at the peer when its latest NTP message was sent. If
the peer becomes unreachable the value is set to zero.

Receive Timestamp (peer.rec, pkt.rec): This is the local time, in
timestamp format, when the latest NTP message from the peer arrived. If
the peer becomes unreachable the value is set to zero.

Transmit Timestamp (peer.xmt, pkt.xmt): This is the local time, in
timestamp format, at which the NTP message departed the sender.

System Variables

Table 1<$&tab1> shows the complete set of system variables. In addition
to the common variables described previously, the following variables
are used by the operating system in order to synchronize the local
clock.

Local Clock (sys.clock): This is the current local time, in timestamp
format. Local time is derived from the hardware clock of the particular
machine and increments at intervals depending on the design used. An
appropriate design, including slewing and skew-Compensation mechanisms,
is described in Section 5.

Clock Source (sys.peer): This is a selector identifying the current
synchronization source. Usually this will be a pointer to a structure
containing the peer variables. The special value NULL indicates there is
no currently valid synchronization source.

Peer Variables

Table 2 shows the complete set of peer variables. In addition to the
common variables described previously, the following variables are used
by the peer management and measurement functions.

Configured Bit (peer.config): This is a bit indicating that the
association was created from configuration information and should not be
demobilized if the peer becomes unreachable.

Update Timestamp (peer.update): This is the local time, in timestamp
format, when the most recent NTP message was received. It is used in
calculating the skew dispersion.

Reachability Register (peer.reach): This is a shift register of
NTP.WINDOW bits used to determine the reachability status of the peer,
with bits entering from the least significant (rightmost) end. A peer is
considered reachable if at least one bit in this register is set to one.

Peer Timer (peer.timer): This is an integer counter used to control the
interval between transmitted NTP messages. Once set to a nonzero value,
the counter decrements at one-second intervals until reaching zero, at
which time the transmit procedure is called. Note that the operation of
this timer is independent of local-clock updates, which implies that the
timekeeping system and interval-timer system architecture must be
independent of each other.<$&tab2>

Packet Variables

Table 3<$&tab3> shows the complete set of packet variables. In addition
to the common variables described previously, the following variables
are defined.

Version Number (pkt.version): This is an integer indicating the version
number of the sender. NTP messages will always be sent with the current
version number NTP.VERSION and will always be accepted if the version
number matches NTP.VERSION. Exceptions may be advised on a case-by-case
basis at times when the version number is changed. Specific guidelines
for interoperation between this version and previous versions of NTP are
summarized in Appendix D.

Clock-Filter Variables

When the filter and selection algorithms suggested in Section 4 are
used, the following state variables are defined in addition to the
variables described previously.

Filter Register (peer.filter): This is a shift register of NTP.SHIFT
stages, where each stage stores a 3-tuple consisting of the measured
delay, measured offset and calculated dispersion associated with a
single observation. These 3-tuples enter from the most significant
(leftmost) right and are shifted towards the least significant
(rightmost) end and eventually discarded as new observations arrive.

Valid Data Counter (peer.valid): This is an integer counter indicating
the valid samples remaining in the filter register. It is used to
determine the reachability state and when the poll interval should be
increased or decreased.

Offset (peer.offset): This is a signed, fixed-point number indicating
the offset of the peer clock relative to the local clock, in seconds.

Delay (peer.delay): This is a signed fixed-point number indicating the
roundtrip delay of the peer clock relative to the local clock over the
network path between them, in seconds. Note that this variable can take
on both positive and negative values, depending on clock precision and
skew-error accumulation.

Dispersion (peer.dispersion): This is a signed fixed-point number
indicating the maximum error of the peer clock relative to the local
clock over the network path between them, in seconds. Only positive
values greater than zero are possible.

Authentication Variables

When the authentication mechanism suggested in Appendix C is used, the
following state variables are defined in addition to the variables
described previously. These variables are used only if the optional
authentication mechanism described in Appendix C is implemented.

Authentication Enabled Bit (peer.authenable): This is a bit indicating
that the association is to operate in the authenticated mode.

Authenticated Bit (peer.authentic): This is a bit indicating that the
last message received from the peer has been correctly authenticated.

Key Identifier (peer.hostkeyid, peer.peerkeyid, pkt.keyid): This is an
integer identifying the cryptographic key used to generate the message-
authentication code.

Cryptographic Keys (sys.key): This is a set of 64-bit DES keys. Each key
is constructed as in the Berkeley Unix distributions, which consists of
eight octets, where the seven low-order bits of each octet correspond to
the DES bits 1-7 and the high-order bit corresponds to the DES odd-
parity bit 8.

Crypto-Checksum (pkt.check): This is a crypto-checksum computed by the
encryption procedure.

Parameters

Table 4<$&tab4> shows the parameters assumed for all implementations
operating in the Internet system. It is necessary to agree on the values
for these parameters in order to avoid unnecessary network overheads and
stable peer associations. The following parameters are assumed fixed and
applicable to all associations.

Version Number (NTP.VERSION): This is the current NTP version number
(3).

NTP Port (NTP.PORT): This is the port number (123) assigned by the
Internet Assigned Numbers Authority to NTP.

Maximum Stratum (NTP.MAXSTRATUM): This is the maximum stratum value that
can be encoded as a packet variable, also interpreted as
<169>infinity<170> or unreachable by the subnet routing algorithm.

Maximum Clock Age (NTP.MAXAGE): This is the maximum interval a reference
clock will be considered valid after its last update, in seconds.

Maximum Skew (NTP.MAXSKEW): This is the maximum offset error due to skew
of the local clock over the interval determined by NTP.MAXAGE, in
seconds. The ratio <$Ephi~=~roman {NTP.MAXSKEW over NTP.MAXAGE}> is
interpreted as the maximum possible skew rate due to all causes.

Maximum Distance (NTP.MAXDISTANCE): When the selection algorithm
suggested in Section 4 is used, this is the maximum synchronization
distance for peers acceptable for synchronization.

Minimum Poll Interval (NTP.MINPOLL): This is the minimum poll interval
allowed by any peer of the Internet system, in seconds to a power of
two.

Maximum Poll Interval (NTP.MAXPOLL): This is the maximum poll interval
allowed by any peer of the Internet system, in seconds to a power of
two.

Minimum Select Clocks (NTP.MINCLOCK): When the selection algorithm
suggested in Section 4 is used, this is the minimum number of peers
acceptable for synchronization.

Maximum Select Clocks (NTP.MAXCLOCK): When the selection algorithm
suggested in Section 4 is used, this is the maximum number of peers
considered for selection.

Minimum Dispersion (NTP.MINDISPERSE): When the filter algorithm
suggested in Section 4 is used, this is the minimum dispersion increment
for each stratum level, in seconds.

Maximum Dispersion (NTP.MAXDISPERSE): When the filter algorithm
suggested in Section 4 is used, this is the maximum peer dispersion and
the dispersion assumed for missing data, in seconds.

Reachability Register Size (NTP.WINDOW): This is the size of the
reachability register (peer.reach), in bits.

Filter Size (NTP.SHIFT): When the filter algorithm suggested in Section
