10 ms, as used in many workstations, the value shown in Table 6 can be
increased by a factor of five.

Implementation Issues

The basic NTP robustness model is that a host has no other means to
verify time other than NTP itself. In some equipment a battery-backed
clock/calendar is available for a sanity check. If such a device is
available, it should be used only to confirm sanity of the timekeeping
system, not as the source of system time. In the common assumption (not
always justified) that the clock/calendar is more reliable, but less
accurate, than the NTP synchronization subnet, the recommended approach
at initialization is to set the Clock register as determined from the
clock/calendar and the other registers, counters and flags as described
above. On subsequent updates if the time offset is greater than a
configuration parameter (e.g., 1000 seconds), then the update should be
discarded and an error condition reported. Some implementations
periodically record the contents of the Skew-Compensation register in
stable storage such as a system file or NVRAM and retrieve this value at
initialization. This can significantly reduce the time to converge to
the nominal stability and accuracy regime.

Conversion from NTP format to the common date and time formats used by
application programs is simplified if the internal local-clock format
uses separate date and time variables. The time variable is designed to
roll over at 24 hours, give or take a leap second as determined by the
leap-indicator bits, with its overflows (underflows) incrementing
(decrementing) the date variable. The date and time variables then
indicate the number of days and seconds since some previous reference
time, but uncorrected for intervening leap seconds.

On the day prior to the insertion of a leap second the leap bits
(sys.leap) are set at the primary servers, presumably by manual means.
Subsequently, these bits show up at the local host and are passed to the
local-clock procedure. This causes the modulus of the time variable,
which is the length of the current day, to be increased or decreased by
one second as appropriate. Immediately following insertion the leap bits
are reset. Additional discussion on this issue can be found in Appendix
