E.

Lack of a comprehensive mechanism to administer the leap bits in the
primary servers is presently an awkward problem better suited to a
comprehensive network-management mechanism yet to be developed. As a
practical matter and unless specific provisions have been made
otherwise, currently manufactured radio clocks have no provisions for
leap seconds, either automatic or manual. Thus, when a leap actually
occurs, the radio must resynchronize to the broadcast timecode, which
may take from a few minutes to some hours. Unless special provisions are
made, a primary server might leap to the new timescale, only to be
yanked back to the previous timescale when it next synchronizes to the
radio. Subsequently, the server will be yanked forward again when the
radio itself resynchronizes to the broadcast timecode.

This problem can not be reliably avoided using any selection algorithm,
since there will always exist an interval of at least a couple of
minutes and possibly as much as some hours when some or all radios will
be out of synchronization with the broadcast timecode and only after the
majority of them have resynchronized will the subnet settle down. The
CLOCK.MINSTEP delay is designed to cope with this problem by forcing a
minimum interval since the last gradual adjustment was made before
allowing a step change to occur. Therefore, until the radio
resynchronizes, it will continue on the old timescale, which is one
second off the local clock after the leap and outside the maximum
aperture CLOCK.MAX permitted for gradual phase adjustments. When the
radio eventually resynchronizes, it will almost certainly come up within
the aperture and again become the reference source. Thus, even in the
unlikely case when the local clock incorrectly leaps, the server will go
no longer than CLOCK.MINSTEP seconds before resynchronizing.

Acknowledgments

Many people contributed to the contents of this document, which was
thoroughly debated by electronic mail and debugged using two different
prototype implementations for the Unix 4.3bsd operating system, one
written by Louis Mamakos and Michael Petry of the University of Maryland
and the other by Dennis Ferguson of the University of Toronto. Another
implementation for the Fuzzball operating system [MIL88b] was written by
the author. Many individuals to numerous to mention meticulously tested
the several beta-test prototype versions and ruthlessly smoked out the
bugs, both in the code and the specification. Especially useful were
comments from Dennis Ferguson and Bill Sommerfeld, as well as
discussions with Joe Comuzzi and others at Digital Equipment
Corporation.

References

[ABA89]

Abate, et al. AT&T's new approach to the synchronization of
telecommunication networks. IEEE Communications Magazine (April 1989),
