Appendix C. Authentication Issues

NTP robustness requirements are similar to those of other multiple-peer
distributed protocols used for network routing, management and file
access. These include protection from faulty implementations, improper
operation and possibly malicious replay attacks with or without data
modification. These requirements are especially stringent with
distributed protocols, since damage due to failures can propagate
quickly throughout the network, devastating archives, routes and
monitoring systems and even bring down major portions of the network in
the fashion of the classic Internet Worm.

The access-control mechanism suggested in the NTP specification responds
to these requirements by limiting access to trusted peers. The various
sanity checks resist most replay and spoofing attacks by discarding old
duplicates and using the originate timestamp as a one-time pad, since it
is unlikely that even a synchronized peer can predict future timestamps
with the precision required on the basis of past observations alone. In
addition, the protocol environment resists jamming attacks by employing
redundant time servers and diverse network paths. Resistance to
stochastic disruptions, actual or manufactured, are minimized by careful
design of the filtering and selection algorithms.

However, it is possible that a determined intruder can disrupt
timekeeping operations between peers by subtle modifications of NTP
message data, such as falsifying header fields or certain timestamps. In
cases where protection from even these types of attacks is required, a
specifically engineered message-authentication mechanism based on
cryptographic techniques is necessary. Typical mechanisms involve the
use of cryptographic certificates, algorithms and key media, together
with secure media databases and key-management protocols. Ongoing
research efforts in this area are directed toward developing a standard
methodology that can be used with many protocols, including NTP.
However, while it may eventually be the case that ubiquitous, widely
applicable authentication methodology may be adopted by the Internet
community and effectively overtake the mechanism described here, it does
not appear that specific standards and implementations will happen
within the lifetime of this particular version of NTP.

The NTP authentication mechanism described here is intended for interim
use until specific standards and implementations operating at the
network level or transport level are available. Support for this
mechanism is not required in order to conform to the NTP specification
itself. The mechanism, which operates at the application level, is
designed to protect against unauthorized message-stream modification and
misrepresentation of source by insuring that unbroken, authenticated
paths exist between a trusted, stratum-one server in a particular
synchronization subnet and all other servers in that subnet. It employs
a crypto-checksum, computed by the sender and checked by the receiver,
together with a set of predistributed algorithms, certificates and
cryptographic keys indexed by a key identifier included in the message.
However, there are no provisions in NTP itself to distribute or maintain
the certificates, algorithms or keys. These quantities may occasionally
be changed, which may result in inconsistent key information while
rekeying is in progress. The nature of NTP itself is quite tolerant to
such disruptions, so no particular provisions are included to deal with
them.

The intent of the authentication mechanism is to provide a framework
that can be used in conjunction with selected mode combinations to build
specific plans to manage clockworking communities and implement policy
as necessary. It can be selectively enabled or disabled on a per-peer
basis. There is no specific plan proposed to manage the use of such
schemes; although several possibilities are immediately obvious. In one
scenario a group of time servers peers among themselves using symmetric
modes and shares one secret key, say key 1, while another group of
servers peers among themselves using symmetric modes and shares another
secret key, say key 2. Now, assume by policy it is decided that selected
servers in group 1 can provide synchronization to group 2, but not the
other way around. The selected servers in group 1 are given key 2, but
operated only in server mode, so cannot accept synchronization from
group 2; however, group 2 has authenticated access to group-1 servers.
Many other scenarios are possible with suitable combinations of modes
and keys.

A packet format and crypto-checksum procedure appropriate for NTP is
specified in the following sections. The cryptographic information is
carried in an authenticator which follows the (unmodified) NTP header
fields. The crypto-checksum procedure uses the Data Encryption Standard
(DES) [NBS77]; however, only the DES encryption algorithm is used and
the decryption algorithm is not necessary. This feature is specifically
targeted toward governmental sensitivities on the export of
cryptographic technology, since the DES decryption algorithm need not be
included in NTP software distributions and thus cannot be extracted and
used in other applications to avoid message data disclosure.

NTP Authentication Mechanism

When it is created and possibly at other times, each association is
allocated variables identifying the certificate authority, encryption
algorithm, cryptographic key and possibly other data. The specific
procedures to allocate and initialize these variables are beyond the
scope of this specification, as are the association of the identifiers
and keys and the management and distribution of the keys themselves. For
example and consistency with the conventions of the NTP specification, a
set of appropriate peer and packet variables might include the
following:

Authentication Enabled Bit (peer.authenable): This is a bit indicating
that the association is to operate in the authenticated mode. For
configured peers this bit is determined from the startup environment.
For non-configured peers, this bit is set to one if an arriving message
includes the authenticator and set to zero otherwise.

Authenticated Bit (peer.authentic): This is a bit indicating that the
last message received from the peer has been correctly authenticated.

Key Identifier (peer.hostkeyid, peer.peerkeyid, pkt.keyid): This is an
integer identifying the cryptographic key used to generate the message-
authentication code. The system variable peer.hostkeyid is used for
active associations. The peer.peerkeyid variable is initialized at zero
(unspecified) when the association is mobilized. For purposes of
authentication an unassigned value is interpreted as zero (unspecified).

Cryptographic Keys (sys.key): This is a set of 64-bit DES keys. Each key
is constructed as in the Berkeley Unix distributions, which consists of
eight octets, where the seven low-order bits of each octet correspond to
the DES bits 1-7 and the high-order bit corresponds to the DES odd-
parity bit 8. By convention, the unspecified key 0 (zero), consisting of
eight odd-parity zero octets, is used for testing and presumed known
throughout the NTP community. The remaining keys are distributed using
methods outside the scope of NTP.

Crypto-Checksum (pkt.check): This is a crypto-checksum computed by the
encryption procedure.

The authenticator field consists of two subfields, one consisting of the
pkt.keyid variable and the other the pkt.check variable computed by the
encrypt procedure, which is called by the transmit procedure described
in the NTP specification, and by the decrypt procedure, which is called
by the receive procedure described in the NTP specification. Its
presence is revealed by the fact the total datagram length according to
the UDP header is longer than the NTP message length, which includes the
header plus the data field, if present. For authentication purposes, the
NTP message is zero-padded if necessary to a 64-bit boundary, although
the padding bits are not considered part of the NTP message itself. The
authenticator format shown in Figure 7<$&fig7> has 96 bits, including a
