Appendix D. Differences from Previous Versions.

The original NTP, later called NTP Version 0, was described in RFC-958
[MIL85c]. Subsequently, Version 0 was superseded by Version 1 (RFC-1059
[MIL88a]), and Version 2 (RFC-1119 [MIL89]. The Version-2 description
was split into two documents, RFC-1119 defining the architecture and
specifying the protocol and algorithms, and another [MIL90b] describing
the service model, algorithmic analysis and operating experience. In
previous versions these two objectives were combined in one document.
While the architecture assumed in Version 3 is identical to Version 2,
the protocols and algorithms differ in minor ways. Differences between
NTP Version 3 and previous versions are described in this Appendix. Due
to known bugs in very old implementations, continued support for
Version-0 implementations is not recommended. It is recommended that new
implementations follow the guidelines below when interoperating with
older implementations.

Version 3 neither changes the protocol in any significant way nor
obsoletes previous versions or existing implementations. The main
motivation for the new version is to refine the analysis and
implementation models for new applications at much higher network speeds
to the gigabit-per-second regime and to provide for the enhanced
stability, accuracy and precision required at such speeds. In
particular, the sources of time and frequency errors have been
rigorously examined and error bounds established in order to improve
performance, provide a model for correctness assertions and indicate
timekeeping quality to the user. Version 3 also incorporates two new
optional features, (1) an algorithm to combine the offsets of a number
of peer time servers in order to enhance accuracy and (2) improved
local-clock algorithms which allow the poll intervals on all
synchronization paths to be substantially increased in order to reduce
network overhead. Following is a summary of previous versions of the
protocol together with details of the Version 3 changes.

