Appendix E. The NTP Timescale and its Chronometry

Introduction

Following is an extended discussion on computer network chronometry,
which is the precise determination of computer time and frequency
relative to international standards and the determination of
conventional civil time and date according to the modern calendar. It
describes the methods conventionally used to establish civil time and
date and the various timescales now in use. In particular, it
characterizes the Network Time Protocol (NTP) timescale relative to the
Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) timescale, and establishes the precise
interpretation of UTC leap seconds in NTP.

In the following discussion the terms time, oscillator, clock, epoch,
calendar, date and timescale are used in a technical sense. Strictly
speaking, the time of an event is an abstraction which determines the
ordering of events in some given frame of reference. An oscillator is a
generator capable of precise frequency (relative to the given frame of
reference) to a specified tolerance. A clock is an oscillator together
with a counter which records the (fractional) number of cycles since
being initialized with a given value at a given time. The value of the
counter at any given time is called its epoch at that time. In general,
epoches are not continuous and depend on the precision of the counter.

A calendar is a mapping from epoch in some frame of reference to the
times and dates used in everyday life. Since multiple calendars are in
use today and sometimes disagree on the dating of the same events in the
past, the chronometry of past and present events is an art practiced by
historians. One of the goals of this discussion is to provide a standard
chronometry for precision dating of present and future events in a
global networking community. To synchronize frequency means to adjust
the oscillators in the network to run at the same frequency, to
synchronize time means to set the clocks so that all agree at a
particular epoch with respect to UTC, as provided by international
standards, and to synchronize clocks means to synchronize them in both
frequency and time.

In order to synchronize clocks, there must be some way to directly or
indirectly compare them in time and frequency. The ultimate frame of
reference for our world consists of the cosmic oscillators: the Sun,
Moon and other galactic orbiters. Since the frequencies of these
oscillators are relatively unstable and not known exactly, the ultimate
reference standard oscillator has been chosen by international agreement
as a synthesis of many observations of an atomic transition of exquisite
stability. The epoches of each heavenly and Earthbound oscillator
defines a distinctive timescale, not necessarily always continuous,
relative to the standard oscillator. Another goal of this presentation
is to describe a standard chronometry to rationalize conventional
computer time and UTC; in particular, how to handle leap seconds.

Primary Frequency and Time Standards

A primary frequency standard is an oscillator that can maintain
extremely precise frequency relative to a physical phenomenon, such as a
transition in the orbital states of an electron. Presently available
atomic oscillators are based on the transitions of the hydrogen, cesium
and rubidium atoms. Table 7<$&tab7> shows the characteristics for
typical oscillators of these types compared with those for various types
of quartz-crystal oscillators found in electronic equipment. For reasons
of cost and robustness cesium oscillators are used worldwide for
national primary frequency standards. On the other hand, local clocks
used in computing equipment almost always are designed with
uncompensated crystal oscillators.

For the three atomic oscillators listed in Table 7 the drift/aging
column shows the maximum offset per day from nominal standard frequency
due to systematic mechanical and electrical characteristics. In the case
of crystal oscillators this offset is not constant, which results in a
gradual change in frequency with time, called aging. Even if a crystal
oscillator is temperature compensated by some means, it must be
periodically compared to a primary standard in order to maintain the
highest accuracy. For all types of oscillators the stability column
shows the maximum variation in frequency per day due to circuit noise
and environmental factors.

As the telephone networks of the world are evolving rapidly to digital
technology, consideration should be given to the methods used for
frequency synchronization in digital networks. A network of clocks in
which each oscillator is phase-locked to a single frequency standard is
called isochronous, while a network in which some oscillators are phase-
locked to different master oscillators, but with the master oscillators
closely synchronized in frequency (not necessarily phase locked), to a
single frequency standard is called plesiochronous. In plesiochronous
systems the phase of some oscillators can slip relative to others and
cause occasional data errors in synchronous transmission systems.

The industry has agreed on a classification of clock oscillators as a
function of minimum accuracy, minimum stability and other factors
[ALL74a]. There are three factors which determine the classification:
stability, jitter and wander. Stability refers to the systematic
variation of frequency with time and is synonymous with aging, drift,
trends, etc. Jitter (also called timing jitter) refers to short-term
variations in frequency with components greater than 10 Hz, while wander
refers to long-term variations in frequency with components less than 10
Hz. The classification determines the oscillator stratum (not to be
confused with the NTP stratum), with the more accurate oscillators
assigned the lower strata and less accurate oscillators the higher
strata:

@Z_TBL_BEG = COLUMNS(3), DIMENSION(IN), COLWIDTHS(E1,E2,E2),
WIDTH(5.0000), ABOVE(.1670), BELOW(.0830), HGUTTER(.3330),
BOX(Z_SINGLE), KEEP(ON), ALIGN(CT), L1(R1C0..R1C3)

@Z_TBL_BODY = TABLE CENTER, TABLE HEADER, TABLE HEADER

Stratum, Min Accuracy (per day), Min Stability (per day)

@Z_TBL_BODY = TABLE CENTER, TABLE TEXT, TABLE TEXT

