2.5, 5, 10, 15 and 20 MHz from Fort Collins, CO (WWV), and Kauai, HI
(WWVH). Signal propagation is usually by reflection from the upper
ionospheric layers, which vary in height and composition throughout the
day and season and result in unpredictable delay variations at the
receiver. The timecode is transmitted over a 60-second interval at a
data rate of 1 bps using a 100-Hz subcarrier on the broadcast signal.
The timecode information includes UTC time-day information, but does not
currently include year or leap-second warning. While these transmissions
and those of Canada from Ottawa, Ontario (CHU), and other countries can
be received over large areas in the western hemisphere, reliable
frequency comparisons can be made only to the order of 10-7 and time
accuracies are limited to the order of a millisecond [BLA74]. Radio
clocks which operate with these transmissions include the Traconex 1020,
which provides accuracies to about ten milliseconds and is priced in the
$1,500 range.

A second service operated by NIST uses low-frequency (LF or CCIR band 5)
transmissions on 60 kHz from Boulder, CO (WWVB), and can be received
over the continental U.S. and adjacent coastal areas. Signal propagation
is via the lower ionospheric layers, which are relatively stable and
have predictable diurnal variations in height. The timecode is
transmitted over a 60-second interval at a rate of 1 pps using periodic
reductions in carrier power. With appropriate receiving and averaging
techniques and corrections for diurnal and seasonal propagation effects,
frequency comparisons to within 10-11 are possible and time accuracies
of from a few to 50 microseconds can be obtained [BLA74]. Some countries
in western Europe operate similar services which use transmissions on 60
kHz from Rugby, U.K. (MSF), and on 77.5 kHz from Mainflingen, West
Germany (DCF77). The timecode information includes UTC time-day-year
information and leap-second warning. Radio clocks which operate with
these transmissions include the Spectracom 8170 and Kinemetrics/TrueTime
