24 satellites in 12-hour orbits. For time-transfer applications GPS has
a potential accuracy in the order of a few nanoseconds; however, various
considerations of defense policy may limit accuracy to hundreds of
nanoseconds [VAN84]. The timecode information includes GPS time and UTC
correction; however, there appears to be no leap-second warning. Radio
clocks which operate with these transmissions include the
Kinemetrics/TrueTime GPS-DC, which provides accuracies to 200 <$Emu>s
and is priced in the $12,000 range. However, since only about half the
satellites have been launched, expensive rubidium or quartz oscillators
are necessary to preserve accuracy during outages. Also, since this is a
single-channel receiver, it must be supplied with geographic coordinates
within a degree from an external source before operation begins.

The U.S. Coast Guard, along with agencies of other countries, has
operated the LORAN-C [FRA82] radionavigation system for many years. It
currently provides time-transfer accuracies of less than a microsecond
and eventually may achieve 100 ns within the ground-wave coverage area
of a few hundred kilometers from the transmitter. Beyond the ground wave
area signal propagation is via the lower ionospheric layers, which
decreases accuracies to the order of 50 us. With the recent addition of
the Mid-Continent Chain, the deployment of LORAN-C transmitters now
provides complete coverage of the U.S. LORAN-C timing receivers, such as
the Austron 2000, are specialized and extremely expensive (up to
$20,000). They are used primarily to monitor local cesium clocks and are
not suited for unattended, automatic operation. While the LORAN-C system
provides a highly accurate frequency and time reference within the
ground wave area, there is no timecode modulation, so the receiver must
be supplied with UTC time to within a few tens of seconds from an
external source before operation begins.

The OMEGA [VAS78] radionavigation system operated by the U.S. Navy and
other countries consists of eight very-low-frequency (VLF or CCIR band
