4) transmitters operating on frequencies from 10.2 to 13.1 kHz and
providing 24-hour worldwide coverage. With appropriate receiving and
averaging techniques and corrections for propagation effects, frequency
comparisons and time accuracies are comparable to the LF systems, but
with worldwide coverage [BLA74]. Radio clocks which operate with these
transmissions include the Kinemetrics/TrueTime OM-DC, which provides
accuracies to 1 ms and is priced in the $3,500 range. While the OMEGA
system provides a highly accurate frequency reference, there is no
timecode modulation, so the receiver must be supplied with geographic
coordinates within a degree and UTC time within five seconds from an
external source before operation begins. There are several other VLF
services intended primarily for worldwide data communications with
characteristics similar to OMEGA. These services can be used in a manner
similar to OMEGA, but this requires specialized techniques not suited
for unattended, automatic operation.

Note that not all transmission formats used by NIST radio broadcast
services [NBS79] and no currently available radio clocks include
provisions for year information and leap-second warning. This
information must be determined from other sources. NTP includes
provisions to distribute advance warnings of leap seconds using the
leap-indicator bits described in the NTP specification. The protocol is
designed so that these bits can be set manually or by the radio timecode
at the primary time servers and then automatically distributed
throughout the synchronization subnet to all other time servers.
Calendar Systems

The calendar systems used in the ancient world reflect the agricultural,
political and ritual needs characteristic of the societies in which they
flourished. Astronomical observations to establish the winter and summer
solstices were in use three to four millennia ago. By the 14th century
BC the Shang Chinese had established the solar year as 365.25 days and
the lunar month as 29.5 days. The lunisolar calendar, in which the
ritual month is based on the Moon and the agricultural year on the Sun,
was used throughout the ancient Near East (except Egypt) and Greece from
the third millennium BC. Early calendars used either thirteen lunar
months of 28 days or twelve alternating lunar months of 29 and 30 days
and haphazard means to reconcile the 354/364-day lunar year with the
