29 days and 125 lunar months of 30 days for a total of 235 lunar months
in 6940 solar days, or just over 19 years. The 19-year cycle, called the
Metonic cycle, established the lunar month at 29.532 solar days, or
within about two minutes of the present measured value.

The Roman republican calendar was based on a lunar year and by 50 BC was
eight weeks out of step with the solar year. Julius Caesar invited the
Alexandrian astronomer Sosigenes to redesign the calendar, which led to
the adoption in 46 BC of the Julian calendar. This calendar is based on
a year of 365 days with an intercalary day inserted every four years.
However, for the first 36 years an intercalary day was mistakenly
inserted every three years instead of every four. The result was 12
intercalary days instead of nine, and a series of corrections that was
not complete until 8 AD.

The seven-day Sumerian week was introduced only in the fourth century AD
by Emperor Constantine I. During the Roman era a 15-year census cycle,
called the Indiction cycle, was instituted for taxation purposes. The
sequence of day-names for consecutive occurrences of a particular day of
the year does not recur for 28 years, called the solar cycle. Thus, the
least common multiple of the 28-year solar cycle, 19-year Metonic cycle
and 15-year Indiction cycle results in a grand 7980-year supercycle
called the Julian Era, which began in 4713 BC. A particular combination
of the day of the week, day of the year, phase of the Moon and round of
the census will recur beginning in 3268 AD.

By 1545 the discrepancy in the Julian year relative to the solar year
had accumulated to ten days. In 1582, following suggestions by the
astronomers Christopher Clavius and Luigi Lilio, Pope Gregory XIII
issued a papal bull which decreed, among other things, that the solar
year would consist of 365.2422 days. In order to more closely
approximate the new value, only those centennial years divisible by 400
would be leap years, while the remaining centennial years would not,
making the actual value 365.2425, or within about 26 seconds of the
current measured value. Since the beginning of the Common Era and prior
to 1990 there were 474 intercalary days inserted in the Julian calendar,
but 14 of these were removed in the Gregorian calendar. While the
Gregorian calendar is in use throughout most of the world today, some
countries did not adopt it until early in the twentieth century.
While it remains a fascinating field for time historians, the above
narrative provides conclusive evidence that conjugating calendar dates
of significant events and assigning NTP timestamps to them is
approximate at best. In principle, reliable dating of such events
requires only an accurate count of the days relative to some globally
alarming event, such as a comet passage or supernova explosion; however,
only historically persistent and politically stable societies, such as
the ancient Chinese and Egyptian, and especially the classic Maya,
possessed the means and will to do so.

The Modified Julian Day System

In order to measure the span of the universe or the decay of the proton,
it is necessary to have a standard day-numbering plan. Accordingly, the
International Astronomical Union has adopted the use of the standard
second and Julian Day Number (JDN) to date cosmological events and
related phenomena. The standard day consists of 86,400 standard seconds,
where time is expressed as a fraction of the whole day, and the standard
year consists of 365.25 standard days.

In the scheme devised in 1583 by the French scholar Joseph Julius
Scaliger and named after his father, Julius Caesar Scaliger, JDN 0.0
corresponds to 12h (noon) on the first day of the Julian Era, 1 January
