8<$&tab8> (courtesy U.S. Naval Observatory). Published IBWM corrections
consist not only of leap seconds, which result in step discontinuities
relative to TAI, but 100-ms UT1 adjustments called DUT1, which provide
increased accuracy for navigation and space science.

Note that the NTP time column actually shows the epoch following the
last second of the day given in the UTC date and MJD columns (except for
the first line), which is the precise epoch of insertion. The offset
column shows the cumulative seconds offset between the uncoordinated
(Julian) timescale and the UTC timescale; that is, the number of seconds
to add to the Julian clock in order to maintain nominal agreement with
the UTC clock. Finally, note that the epoch of insertion is relative to
the timescale immediately prior to that epoch; e.g., the epoch of the 31
December 90 insertion is determined on the timescale in effect following
the 31 December 1990 insertion, which means the actual insertion
relative to the Julian clock is fourteen seconds later than the apparent
time on the UTC timescale.

The UTC timescale thus ticks in standard (atomic) seconds and was set to
the value 0h MJD 41,317.0 at the epoch determined by astronomical
observation to be 0h on 1 January 1972 according to the Gregorian
calendar; that is, the inaugural tick of the UTC Era. In fact, the
inaugural tick which synchronized the cosmic oscillators, Julian clock,
UTC clock and Gregorian calendar forevermore was displaced about ten
seconds from the civil clock then in use, while the GPS clock is ahead
of the UTC clock by six seconds in late 1990. Subsequently, the UTC
clock has marched backward relative to the Julian timescale exactly one
second on scheduled occasions at monumental epoches embedded in the
institutional memory of our civilization. Note in passing that leap-
second adjustments affect the number of seconds per day and thus the
number of seconds per year. Apparently, should we choose to worry about
it, the UTC clock, Julian clock and various cosmic clocks will
inexorably drift apart with time until rationalized by some future papal
bull.

The NTP Timescale and Reckoning with UTC
The NTP timescale is based on the UTC timescale, but not necessarily
always coincident with it. At 0h on 1 January 1972 (MJD 41,317.0), the
first tick of the UTC Era, the NTP clock was set to 2,272,060,800,
representing the number of standard seconds since 0h on 1 January 1900
(MJD 15,020.0). The insertion of leap seconds in UTC and subsequently
into NTP does not affect the UTC or NTP oscillator, only the conversion
to conventional civil UTC time. However, since the only institutional
memory available to NTP are the UTC timecode broadcast services, the NTP
timescale is in effect reset to UTC as each timecode is received. Thus,
when a leap second is inserted in UTC and subsequently in NTP, knowledge
of all previous leap seconds is lost.

Another way to describe this is to say there are as many NTP timescales
as historic leap seconds. In effect, a new timescale is established
after each new leap second. Thus, all previous leap seconds, not to
mention the apparent origin of the timescale itself, lurch backward one
second as each new timescale is established. If a clock synchronized to
NTP in 1990 was used to establish the UTC epoch of an event that
occurred in early 1972 without correction, the event would appear
fifteen seconds late relative to UTC. However, NTP primary time servers
resolve the epoch using the broadcast timecode, so that the NTP clock is
set to the broadcast value on the current timescale. As a result, for
the most precise determination of epoch relative to the historic UTC
clock, the user must subtract from the apparent NTP epoch the offsets
shown in Table 8 at the relative epoches shown. This is a feature of
almost all present day time-distribution mechanisms.

The chronometry involved can be illustrated with the help of Figure 8,
which shows the details of seconds numbering just before, during and
after the last scheduled leap insertion at 23:59:59 on 31 December 1989.
Notice the NTP leap bits are set on the day prior to insertion, as
indicated by the <169>+<170> symbols on the figure. Since this makes the
day one second longer than usual, the NTP day rollover will not occur
until the end of the first occurrence of second 800. The UTC time
conversion routines must notice the apparent time and the leap bits and
handle the timescale conversions accordingly. Immediately after the leap
insertion both timescales resume ticking the seconds as if the leap had
never happened. The chronometric correspondence between the UTC and NTP
timescales continues, but NTP has forgotten about all past leap
insertions. In NTP chronometric determination of UTC time intervals
spanning leap seconds will thus be in error, unless the exact times of
insertion are known.

It is possible that individual systems may use internal data formats
other than the NTP timestamp format, which is represented in seconds to
a precision of about 200 picoseconds; however, a persuasive argument
exists to use a two-part representation, one part for whole days (MJD or
some fixed offset from it) and the other for the seconds (or some scaled
value, such as milliseconds). This not only facilitates conversion
between NTP and conventional civil time, but makes the insertion of leap
seconds much easier. All that is required is to change the modulus of
the seconds counter, which on overflow increments the day counter. This
design insures that continuity of the timescale is assured, even if
outside synchronization is lost before, during or after leap-second
insertion. Since timestamp data are unaffected, synchronization is
assured, even if timestamp data are in flight at the instant and
originated before or at that instant.

