Appendix G. Computer Clock Modelling and Analysis

A computer clock includes some kind of reference oscillator, which is
stabilized by a quartz crystal or some other means, such as the power
grid. Usually, the clock includes a prescaler, which divides the
oscillator frequency to a standard value, such as 1 MHz or 100 Hz, and a
counter, implemented in hardware, software or some combination of the
two, which can be read by the processor. For systems intended to be
synchronized to an external source of standard time, there must be some
means to correct the phase and frequency by occasional vernier
adjustments produced by the timekeeping protocol. Special care is
necessary in all timekeeping system designs to insure that the clock
indications are always monotonically increasing; that is, system time
never <169>runs backwards.<170>

Computer Clock Models

The simplest computer clock consists of a hardware latch which is set by
overflow of a hardware counter or prescaler, and causes a processor
interrupt or tick. The latch is reset when acknowledged by the
processor, which then increments the value of a software clock counter.
The phase of the clock is adjusted by adding periodic corrections to the
counter as necessary. The frequency of the clock can be adjusted by
changing the value of the increment itself, in order to make the clock
run faster or slower. The precision of this simple clock model is
limited to the tick interval, usually in the order of 10 ms; although in
some systems the tick interval can be changed using a kernel variable.

This software clock model requires a processor interrupt on every tick,
which can cause significant overhead if the tick interval is small, say
in the order less 1 ms with the newer RISC processors. Thus, in order to
achieve timekeeping precisions less than 1 ms, some kind of hardware
assist is required. A straightforward design consists of a voltage-
controlled oscillator (VCO), in which the frequency is controlled by a
buffered, digital/analog converter (DAC). Under the assumption that the
VCO tolerance is 10-4 or 100 parts-per-million (ppm) (a reasonable value
for inexpensive crystals) and the precision required is 100 <$Emu roman
s> (a reasonable goal for a RISC processor), the DAC must include at
least ten bits.

A design sketch of a computer clock constructed entirely of hardware
logic components is shown in Figure 10a<$&fig10>. The clock is read by
first pulsing the read signal, which latches the current value of the
clock counter, then adding the contents of the clock-counter latch and a
