2.  Netlink Architecture

   Control of IP service components is defined by using templates.

   The FEC and CPC participate to deliver the IP service by
   communicating using these templates.  The FEC might continuously get
   updates from the Control Plane Component on how to operate the
   service (e.g., for v4 forwarding or for route additions or
   deletions).

   The interaction between the FEC and the CPC, in the Netlink context,
   defines a protocol.  Netlink provides mechanisms for the CPC
   (residing in user space) and the FEC (residing in kernel space) to
   have their own protocol definition -- kernel space and user space
   just mean different protection domains.  Therefore, a wire protocol
   is needed to communicate.  The wire protocol is normally provided by
   some privileged service that is able to copy between multiple
   protection domains.  We will refer to this service as the Netlink
   service.  The Netlink service can also be encapsulated in a different
   transport layer, if the CPC executes on a different node than the
   FEC.  The FEC and CPC, using Netlink mechanisms, may choose to define
   a reliable protocol between each other.  By default, however, Netlink
   provides an unreliable communication.

   Note that the FEC and CPC can both live in the same memory protection
   domain and use the connect() system call to create a path to the peer
   and talk to each other.  We will not discuss this mechanism further
   other than to say that it is available. Throughout this document, we
   will refer interchangeably to the FEC to mean kernel space and the
   CPC to mean user space.  This denomination is not meant, however, to
   restrict the two components to these protection domains or to the
   same compute node.

   Note: Netlink allows participation in IP services by both service
   components.








Salim, et. al.               Informational                      [Page 7]

RFC 3549        Linux Netlink as an IP Services Protocol       July 2003


