2. Vim on the Amiga					*starting-amiga*

Starting Vim from the Workbench				*workbench*
-------------------------------

Vim can be started from the Workbench by clicking on its icon twice.  It will
then start with an empty buffer.

Vim can be started to edit one or more files by using a "Project" icon.  The
"Default Tool" of the icon must be the full pathname of the Vim executable.
The name of the ".info" file must be the same as the name of the text file.
By clicking on this icon twice, Vim will be started with the file name as
current file name, which will be read into the buffer (if it exists).  You can
edit multiple files by pressing the shift key while clicking on icons, and
clicking twice on the last one.  The "Default Tool" for all these icons must
be the same.

It is not possible to give arguments to Vim, other than file names, from the
workbench.

Vim window						*amiga-window*
----------

Vim will run in the CLI window where it was started.  If Vim was started with
the "run" or "runback" command, or if Vim was started from the workbench, it
will open a window of its own.

Technical detail:
	To open the new window a little trick is used.  As soon as Vim
	recognizes that it does not run in a normal CLI window, it will
	create a script file in "t:".  This script file contains the same
	command as the one Vim was started with, and an "endcli" command.
	This script file is then executed with a "newcli" command (the "c:run"
	and "c:newcli" commands are required for this to work).  The script
	file will hang around until reboot, or until you delete it.  This
	method is required to get the ":sh" and ":!" commands to work
	correctly.  But when Vim was started with the -f option (foreground
	mode), this method is not used.  The reason for this is that
	when a program starts Vim with the -f option it will wait for Vim to
	exit.  With the script trick, the calling program does not know when
	Vim exits.  The -f option can be used when Vim is started by a mail
	program which also waits for the edit session to finish.  As a
	consequence, the ":sh" and ":!" commands are not available when the
	-f option is used.

Vim will automatically recognize the window size and react to window
resizing.  Under Amiga DOS 1.3, it is advised to use the fastfonts program,
"FF", to speed up display redrawing.

