1.3.  Definitions

   VRRP Router            A router running the Virtual Router Redundancy
                          Protocol.  It may participate in one or more
                          virtual routers.

   Virtual Router         An abstract object managed by VRRP that acts
                          as a default router for hosts on a shared LAN.
                          It consists of a Virtual Router Identifier and
                          a set of associated IP address(es) across a
                          common LAN.  A VRRP Router may backup one or
                          more virtual routers.

   IP Address Owner       The VRRP router that has the virtual router's
                          IP address(es) as real interface address(es).
                          This is the router that, when up, will respond
                          to packets addressed to one of these IP
                          addresses for ICMP pings, TCP connections,
                          etc.

   Primary IP Address     An IP address selected from the set of real
                          interface addresses.  One possible selection
                          algorithm is to always select the first
                          address.  VRRP advertisements are always sent
                          using the primary IP address as the source of
                          the IP packet.

   Virtual Router Master  The VRRP router that is assuming the
                          responsibility of forwarding packets sent to
                          the IP address(es) associated with the virtual
                          router, and answering ARP requests for these
                          IP addresses.  Note that if the IP address
                          owner is available, then it will always become
                          the Master.



Hinden                      Standards Track                     [Page 4]

RFC 3768                          VRRP                        April 2004


   Virtual Router Backup  The set of VRRP routers available to assume
                          forwarding responsibility for a virtual router
                          should the current Master fail.

