10.  Security Considerations

   VRRP does not currently include any type of authentication.  Earlier
   versions of the VRRP specification included several types of
   authentication ranging from none to strong.  Operational experience
   and further analysis determined that these did not provide any real
   measure of security.  Due to the nature of the VRRP protocol, even if
   VRRP messages are cryptographically protected, it does not prevent
   hostile routers from behaving as if they are a VRRP master, creating
   multiple masters.  Authentication of VRRP messages could have



Hinden                      Standards Track                    [Page 23]

RFC 3768                          VRRP                        April 2004


   prevented a hostile router from causing all properly functioning
   routers from going into backup state.  However, having multiple
   masters can cause as much disruption as no routers, which
   authentication cannot prevent.  Also, even if a hostile router could
   not disrupt VRRP, it can disrupt ARP and create the same effect as
   having all routers go into backup.

   It should be noted that these attacks are not worse and are a subset
   of the attacks that any node attached to a LAN can do independently
   of VRRP.  The kind of attacks a malicious node on a LAN can do
   include promiscuously receiving packets for any routers MAC address,
   sending packets with the routers MAC address as the source MAC
   addresses in the L2 header to tell the L2 switches to send packets
   addressed to the router to the malicious node instead of the router,
   send redirects to tell the hosts to send their traffic somewhere
   else, send unsolicited ARP replies, answer ARP requests, etc., etc.
   All of this can be done independently of implementing VRRP.  VRRP
   does not add to these vulnerabilities.

   Independent of any authentication type VRRP includes a mechanism
   (setting TTL=255, checking on receipt) that protects against VRRP
   packets being injected from another remote network.  This limits most
   vulnerabilities to local attacks.

   VRRP does not provide any confidentiality.  Confidentiality is not
   necessary for the correct operation of VRRP and there is no
   information in the VRRP messages that must be kept secret from other
   nodes on the LAN.

