4.3. Design Features of AgentX

   The primary features of the design described in this memo are:

   1) A general architectural division of labor between master agent and
      subagent: The master agent is MIB ignorant and SNMP omniscient,
      while the subagent is SNMP ignorant and MIB omniscient (for the
      MIB variables it instantiates).  That is, master agents,
      exclusively, are concerned with SNMP protocol operations and the
      translations to and from AgentX protocol operations needed to



Daniele, et al.             Standards Track                     [Page 9]

RFC 2741                         AgentX                     January 2000


      carry them out; subagents are exclusively concerned with
      management instrumentation; and neither should intrude on the
      other's territory.

   2) A standard protocol and "rules of engagement" to enable
      interoperability between management instrumentation and extensible
      agents.

   3) Mechanisms for independently developed subagents to integrate into
      the extensible agent on a particular managed node in such a way
      that they need not be aware of any other existing subagents.

   4) A simple, deterministic registry and dispatching algorithm.  For a
      given extensible agent configuration, there is a single subagent
      who is "authoritative" for any particular region of the MIB (where
      "region" may extend from an entire MIB down to a single object-
      instance).

   5) Performance considerations.  It is likely that the master agent
      and all subagents will reside on the same host, and in such cases
      AgentX is more a form of inter-process communication than a
      traditional communications protocol.

      Some of the design decisions made with this in mind include:

         - 32-bit alignment of data within PDUs

         - Native byte-order encoding by subagents

         - Large AgentX PDU payload sizes.

