7.2.1.2.  agentx-GetNext-PDU

   Each variable binding in the SNMP request PDU is processed as
   follows:

   (1)  Identify the target MIB region.

        Within a lexicographically ordered set of registered MIB
        regions, valid for the indicated context, locate the
        authoritative region (according to section 7.1.4.1, "Handling
        Duplicate and Overlapping Subtrees") that

        a) contains the variable binding's name and is not a fully
           qualified instance, or



Daniele, et al.             Standards Track                    [Page 61]

RFC 2741                         AgentX                     January 2000


        b) is the first lexicographical successor to the variable
           binding's name.

   (2)  If no such region exists, the variable binding is not processed
        further, and its value is set to `endOfMibView'.

   (3)  Identify the subagent session in which this region was
        registered, termed the target session.

   (4)  If this is the first variable binding to be dispatched over the
        target session in a request-response exchange entailed in the
        processing of this management request:

        -  Create an agentx-GetNext-PDU for the session, with the header
           fields initialized as described above (see section 6.1,
           "AgentX PDU Header").

   (5)  Add a SearchRange to the end of the target session's agentx-
        GetNext-PDU for this variable binding.

        -  if (1a) applies, the variable binding's name is encoded into
           the starting OID, and the OID's "include" field is set to 0.

        -  if (1b) applies, the target region's r.subtree is encoded
           into the starting OID, and its "include" field is set to 1.
           (This is the recommended method.  An implementation may
           choose to use a Starting OID value that precedes r.subtree,
           in which case the include bit must be 0.  A starting OID
           value that succeeds r.subtree is not permitted.)

        -  the Ending OID for the SearchRange is encoded to be either
           NULL, or a value that lexicographically succeeds the Starting
           OID.  This is an implementation-specific choice depending on
           how the master agent wishes to "scope" the possible returned
           instances.

