9. Security Considerations

   This memo defines a protocol between two processing entities, one of
   which (the master agent) is assumed to perform authentication of
   received SNMP requests and to control access to management
   information.  The master agent performs these security operations
   independently of the other processing entity (the subagent).

   Security considerations require three questions to be answered:

      1. Is a particular subagent allowed to initiate a session with a
         particular master agent?

      2. During an AgentX session, is any SNMP security-related
         information (for example, community names) passed from the
         master agent to the subagent?

      3. During an AgentX session, what part of the MIB tree is this
         subagent allowed to register?

   The answer to the third question is: A subagent can register any
   subtree (subject to AgentX elements of procedure, section 7.1.4,
   "Processing the agentx-Register-PDU").  Currently there is no access
   control mechanism defined in AgentX. A concern here is that a
   malicious subagent that registers an unauthorized "sensitive"
   subtree, could see modification requests to those objects, or by
   giving its own clever answer to NMS queries, could cause the NMS to
   do something that leads to information disclosure or other damage.

   The answer to the second question is: No.

   Now we can answer the first question.  AgentX does not contain a
   mechanism for authorizing/refusing session initiations.  Thus,
   controlling subagent access to the master agent may only be done at a
   lower layer (e.g., transport).

   An AgentX subagent can connect to a master agent using either a
   network transport mechanism (e.g., TCP), or a "local" mechanism
   (e.g., shared memory, named pipes).

   In the case where a local transport mechanism is used and both
   subagent and master agent are running on the same host, connection
   authorization can be delegated to the operating system features.  The
   answer to the first security question then becomes: "If and only if
   the subagent has sufficient privileges, then the operating system
   will allow the connection".





Daniele, et al.             Standards Track                    [Page 81]

RFC 2741                         AgentX                     January 2000


   If a network transport is used, currently there is no inherent
   security.  Transport Layer Security, SSL, or IPsec SHOULD be used to
   control and protect subagent connections in this mode of operation.

   However, we RECOMMEND that subagents always run on the same host as
   the master agent and that operating system features be used to ensure
   that only properly authorized subagents can establish connections to
   the master agent.

