7.1.4.2.2.     Index Allocation

   Index allocation is a service provided by an AgentX master agent.  It
   provides generic support for sharing MIB conceptual tables among
   subagents who are assumed to have no knowledge of each other.

   The master agent maintains a database of index objects (OIDs), and,
   for each index, the values that have been allocated for it.  It is
   unaware of what MIB variables (if any) the index objects represent.







Daniele, et al.             Standards Track                    [Page 51]

RFC 2741                         AgentX                     January 2000


   By convention, subagents use the MIB variable listed in the INDEX
   clause as the index object for which values must be allocated.  For
   tables indexed by multiple variables, values may be allocated for
   each index (although this is frequently unnecessary; see example 2
   below).  The subagent may request allocation of

          a) a specific index value
          b) an index value that is not currently allocated
          c) an index value that has never been allocated

   The last two alternatives reflect the uniqueness and constancy
   requirements present in many MIB specifications for arbitrary integer
   indexes (e.g., ifIndex in the IF-MIB (RFC 2233 [19]),
   snmpFddiSMTIndex in the FDDI MIB (RFC 1285 [20]), or
   sysApplInstallPkgIndex in the System Application MIB (RFC 2287
   [21])).  The need for subagents to share tables using such indexes is
   the main motivation for index allocation in AgentX.

   It is important to note that index allocation and MIB region
   registration are not coupled in the master agent. The current state
   of index allocations is not considered when processing registration
   requests, and the current registry is not considered when processing
   index allocation requests.  (This is mainly to accommodate non-AgentX
   subagents.)

   AgentX subagents should follow the model of "first request allocation
   of an index, then register the corresponding region".  Then a
   successful index allocation request gives a subagent a good hint (but
   no guarantee) of what it should be able to register.  The
   registration may fail (with `duplicateRegistration') because some
   other subagent session has already registered that row of the table.

   The recommended mechanism for subagents to register conceptual rows
   in a shared table is

   1) Successfully allocate an index value.

   2) Use that value to fully qualify the MIB region(s), and attempt to
      register using the default priority.

   3) If the registration fails with `duplicateRegistration' deallocate
      the previously allocated index value(s) for this row and go to
      step 1).








Daniele, et al.             Standards Track                    [Page 52]

RFC 2741                         AgentX                     January 2000


   Note that index allocation is necessary only when the index in
   question is an arbitrary value, and hence the subagent has no other
   reasonable way to determine which index values to use.  When index
   values have intrinsic meaning it is not expected that subagents will
   allocate their index values.

   For example, RFC 1514's table of running software processes
   (hrSWRunTable) is indexed by the system's native process identifier
   (pid).  A subagent implementing the row of hrSWRunTable corresponding
   to its own process would simply register the region defining that
   row's object instances without allocating index values.

