A. Changes relative to RFC 2257

   Changes on the wire:

      -  The agentx-Notify-PDU and agentx-Close-PDU now generate an
         agentx-Response-PDU.

      -  The res.error field may contain three new error codes:
         parseFailed(266), requestDenied(267), and processingError(268).

   Clarifications to the text of the memo:

      -  Modified the text of step (4) in section 4.2, "Applicability"
         to separate the two concerns of row creation, and counters that
         count rows.

      -  The use of the r.range_subid field is more clearly defined in
         section 6.2.3, "The agentx-Register-PDU".

      -  Default priority (127) for registration added to the
         description of r.priority in section 6.2.3, "The agentx-
         Register-PDU".

      -  Made the distinction of "administrative processing" PDUs and
         "SNMP request processing" PDUs in section 6.1, "AgentX PDU
         Header" description of h.type.  This distinction is used in the
         Elements of Procedure relative to the res.sysuptime and
         res.error fields.

      -  Rewrote portions of text in section 6.2.3, "The agentx-
         Register-PDU" to be more explicit about the following points:

            -  There is a default registration priority of 127.
            -  Improved the description of r.range_subid, independent of
               the prefix in r.region.
            -  Improved description and examples of how to use the
               registration mechanism.
            -  Added a description for r.upper_bound.
            -  changed r.region to r.subtree (because the text used the
               terms "region", "range", and "OID range" in too loose a
               fashion.  r.subtree can not represent anything more by
               itself than a simple subtree.  In conjunction with
               r.range_subid and r.upper_bound, it can represent a
               "region", that is, a union of subtrees)

   -  Modified the text in section 6.2.4, "The agentx-Unregister-PDU" to
      include a description of u.range_subid and u.upper_bound




Daniele, et al.             Standards Track                    [Page 87]

RFC 2741                         AgentX                     January 2000


   -  Added use of the `requestDenied' error code in section 7.1.4,
      "Processing the agentx-Register-PDU".

   -  Removed text in section 7, "Elements of Procedure" on parse errors
      and protocol errors.

   -  Added a new section, 7.1, "Processing AgentX Administrative
      Messages" which defines common processing and how to use the
      `parseError' and `processingError' instead of closing a session,
      and how to handle context.

   -  Removed the common processing text from the other administrative
      processing Elements of Procedure sections, and added a reference
      to section 7.1, "Processing AgentX Administrative Messages".  The
      affected sections are:

            -  7.1.2,  "Processing the agentx-IndexAllocate-PDU"
            -  7.1.3,  "Processing the agentx-IndexDeallocate-PDU"
            -  7.1.4,  "Processing the agentx-Register-PDU"
            -  7.1.5,  "Processing the agentx-Unregister-PDU"
            -  7.1.6,  "Processing the agentx-AddAgentCaps-PDU"
            -  7.1.7,  "Processing the agentx-RemoveAgentCaps-PDU"
            -  7.1.8,  "Processing the agentx-Close-PDU"
            -  7.1.10, "Processing the agentx-Notify-PDU"
            -  7.1.11, "Processing the agentx-Ping-PDU"

   -  Reworked the text in section 7.1.1, "Processing the
      agentx-Open-PDU" to include new error codes, and, to eliminate
      reference to an indicated context.

   -  Modified the text in Section 7.1.10, "Processing the
      agentx-Notify-PDU" to state that context checking is performed.

   -  Substantially modified the text in section 7.1.4.1, "Handling
      Duplicate and Overlapping Subtrees".

   -  Removed the section on "Using the agentx-IndexAllocate-PDU" and
      added section 7.1.4.2, "Registering Stuff".  This change is
      intended to provide a more concise and a more cohesive
      description of how things are supposed to work.

   -  Modified the test in section 7.1.5, "Processing the
      agentx-Unregister-PDU" to require a match on u.range_subid and
      on u.upper_bound when these fields were applicable in the
      corresponding agentx-Register-PDU.






Daniele, et al.             Standards Track                    [Page 88]

RFC 2741                         AgentX                     January 2000


   -  Removed all references to "splitting", and all uses of the term
      "OID range".  The text now refers to regions or subtrees
      directly, and relies on rule (1), "Honoring the Registry", in
      section 7.2.1, "Dispatching AgentX PDUs".

   -  Modified text in clause 4(c) of section 7.2.1, "Dispatching
      AgentX PDUs", clarifying that the master agent can use its
      implementation-specific default timeout value when the timeout
      value registered by the subagent is impractical.

   -  Added text in section 7.2.2, "Subagent Processing" describing
      common processing.

   -  Added an example to the text in section 7.2.5.3, "Processing of
      Responses to agentx-GetNext-PDU and       agentx-GetBulk-PDU",
      and, removed the definition of "contains" from this section.

   -  Modified text in step (1) of section 7.2.5.5, "Processing of
      Responses to agentx-CommitSet-PDUs", eliminating directive for
      master agent to ignore additional responses to
      agentx-CommitSet-PDUs after the first error response.

   -  Modified text in section 7.2.5.6, "Processing of Responses to
      agentx-UndoSet-PDUs", cleaning up commit/undo elements of
      procedure per feedback received on the AgentX email list.

   -  Modified the text in section 8.1.2, "Operation" to explicitly
      prohibit interleaved sends, and, added a caution about
      exchanging AgentX messages via TCP.

   -  Modified text to be more explicit that the OID in the
      agentx-Allocate-PDU is an OBJECT-TYPE and does not contain any
      instance sub-identifiers.

   -  Replaced the term "subagent" with the term "session" in many
      places throughout the text.

   -  Modified the text relative to master agent processing of the
      agentx-TestSet-PDU, agentx-CommitSet-PDU, and the
      agentx-UndoSet-PDU to explicitly state that only "involved"
      sessions receive an agentx-CommitSet-PDU, and possibly, an
      agentx-UndoSet-PDU.

   -  Modified the text to use the term "transaction", instead of
      "packet" (and others), where appropriate.  This helps
      distinguish the overall transaction from a particular sequence
      of packets or PDUs.




Daniele, et al.             Standards Track                    [Page 89]

RFC 2741                         AgentX                     January 2000


   -  Modified the text to explicitly state that a session is not
      required to support concurrent sets.

   -  Added section 13, "Notices".

   -  Added text to section 1, Introduction, relative to BCP 14 key
      words.

   -  Modified text to section 9, Security Considerations, to include
      use of BCP 14 key words.

   -  Modified text to section 9, Security Considerations, to include
      IPSEC as a suggested Transport Layer Security.






































Daniele, et al.             Standards Track                    [Page 90]

RFC 2741                         AgentX                     January 2000


Full Copyright Statement

   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2000).  All Rights Reserved.

   This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to
   others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it
   or assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published
   and distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any
   kind, provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
   included on all such copies and derivative works.  However, this
   document itself may not be modified in any way, such as by removing
   the copyright notice or references to the Internet Society or other
   Internet organizations, except as needed for the purpose of
   developing Internet standards in which case the procedures for
   copyrights defined in the Internet Standards process must be
   followed, or as required to translate it into languages other than
   English.

   The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be
   revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or assigns.

   This document and the information contained herein is provided on an
   "AS IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET ENGINEERING
   TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING
   BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION
   HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
   MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

Acknowledgement

   Funding for the RFC Editor function is currently provided by the
   Internet Society.



















Daniele, et al.             Standards Track                    [Page 91]

