2.4.1  Request Messages

   A Request is used to ask for a response containing all or part of a
   router's routing table.  Normally, Requests are sent as multicasts,
   from the RIPng port, by routers which have just come up and are
   seeking to fill in their routing tables as quickly as possible.
   However, there may be situations (e.g., router monitoring) where the
   routing table of only a single router is needed.  In this case, the
   Request should be sent directly to that router from a UDP port other
   than the RIPng port.  If such a Request is received, the router
   responds directly to the requestor's address and port with a globally
   valid source address since the requestor may not reside on the
   directly attached network.




Malkin & Minnear            Standards Track                    [Page 10]

RFC 2080                     RIPng for IPv6                 January 1997


   The Request is processed entry by entry.  If there are no entries, no
   response is given.  There is one special case.  If there is exactly
   one entry in the request, and it has a destination prefix of zero, a
   prefix length of zero, and a metric of infinity (i.e., 16), then this
   is a request to send the entire routing table.  In that case, a call
   is made to the output process to send the routing table to the
   requesting address/port.  Except for this special case, processing is
   quite simple.  Examine the list of RTEs in the Request one by one.
   For each entry, look up the destination in the router's routing
   database and, if there is a route, put that route's metric in the
   metric field of the RTE.  If there is no explicit route to the
   specified destination, put infinity in the metric field.  Once all
   the entries have been filled in, change the command from Request to
   Response and send the datagram back to the requestor.

   Note that there is a difference in metric handling for specific and
   whole-table requests.  If the request is for a complete routing
   table, normal output processing is done, including Split Horizon (see
   section 2.6 on Split Horizon).  If the request is for specific
   entries, they are looked up in the routing table and the information
   is returned as is; no Split Horizon processing is done.  The reason
   for this distinction is the expectation that these requests are
   likely to be used for different purposes.  When a router first comes
   up, it multicasts a Request on every connected network asking for a
   complete routing table.  It is assumed that these complete routing
   tables are to be used to update the requestor's routing table.  For
   this reason, Split Horizon must be done.  It is further assumed that
   a Request for specific networks is made only by diagnostic software,
   and is not used for routing.  In this case, the requester would want
   to know the exact contents of the routing table and would not want
   any information hidden or modified.

