2.4.2  Response Messages

   A Response can be received for one of several different reasons:

   - response to a specific query
   - regular update (unsolicited response)
   - triggered update caused by a route change

   Processing is the same no matter why the Response was generated.

   Because processing of a Response may update the router's routing
   table, the Response must be checked carefully for validity.  The
   Response must be ignored if it is not from the RIPng port.  The
   datagram's IPv6 source address should be checked to see whether the
   datagram is from a valid neighbor; the source of the datagram must be
   a link-local address.  It is also worth checking to see whether the



Malkin & Minnear            Standards Track                    [Page 11]

RFC 2080                     RIPng for IPv6                 January 1997


   response is from one of the router's own addresses.  Interfaces on
   broadcast networks may receive copies of their own multicasts
   immediately.  If a router processes its own output as new input,
   confusion is likely, and such datagrams must be ignored.  As an
   additional check, periodic advertisements must have their hop counts
   set to 255, and inbound, multicast packets sent from the RIPng port
   (i.e. periodic advertisement or triggered update packets) must be
   examined to ensure that the hop count is 255.  This absolutely
   guarantees that a packet is from a neighbor, because any intermediate
   node would have decremented the hop count.  Queries and their
   responses may still cross intermediate nodes and therefore do not
   require the hop count test to be done.

   Once the datagram as a whole has been validated, process the RTEs in
   the Response one by one.  Again, start by doing validation.
   Incorrect metrics and other format errors usually indicate
   misbehaving neighbors and should probably be brought to the
   administrator's attention.  For example, if the metric is greater
   than infinity, ignore the entry but log the event.  The basic
   validation tests are:

   - is the destination prefix valid (e.g., not a multicast prefix and
     not a link-local address)  A link-local address should never be
     present in an RTE.
   - is the prefix length valid (i.e., between 0 and 128, inclusive)
   - is the metric valid (i.e., between 1 and 16, inclusive)

   If any check fails, ignore that entry and proceed to the next.
   Again, logging the error is probably a good idea.

   Once the entry has been validated, update the metric by adding the
   cost of the network on which the message arrived.  If the result is
   greater than infinity, use infinity.  That is,

                  metric = MIN (metric + cost, infinity)

   Now, check to see whether there is already an explicit route for the
   destination prefix.  If there is no such route, add this route to the
   routing table, unless the metric is infinity (there is no point in
   adding a route which unusable).  Adding a route to the routing table
   consists of:

   - Setting the destination prefix and length to those in the RTE.

   - Setting the metric to the newly calculated metric (as described
     above).





Malkin & Minnear            Standards Track                    [Page 12]

RFC 2080                     RIPng for IPv6                 January 1997


   - Set the next hop address to be the address of the router from which
     the datagram came or the next hop address specified by a next hop
     RTE.

   - Initialize the timeout for the route.  If the garbage-collection
     timer is running for this route, stop it (see section 2.3 for a
     discussion of the timers).

   - Set the route change flag.

   - Signal the output process to trigger an update (see section 2.5).

   If there is an existing route, compare the next hop address to the
   address of the router from which the datagram came.  If this datagram
   is from the same router as the existing route, reinitialize the
   timeout.  Next, compare the metrics.  If the datagram is from the
   same router as the existing route, and the new metric is different
   than the old one; or, if the new metric is lower than the old one; do
   the following actions:

   - Adopt the route from the datagram.  That is, put the new metric in,
     and adjust the next hop address (if necessary).

   - Set the route change flag and signal the output process to trigger
     an update.

   - If the new metric is infinity, start the deletion process
     (described above); otherwise, re-initialize the timeout.

   If the new metric is infinity, the deletion process begins for the
   route, which is no longer used for routing packets.  Note that the
   deletion process is started only when the metric is first set to
   infinity.  If the metric was already infinity, then a new deletion
   process is not started.

   If the new metric is the same as the old one, it is simplest to do
   nothing further (beyond reinitializing the timeout, as specified
   above); but, there is a heuristic which could be applied.  Normally,
   it is senseless to replace a route if the new route has the same
   metric as the existing route; this would cause the route to bounce
   back and forth, which would generate an intolerable number of
   triggered updates.  However, if the existing route is showing signs
   of timing out, it may be better to switch to an equally-good
   alternative route immediately, rather than waiting for the timeout to
   happen.  Therefore, if the new metric is the same as the old one,
   examine the timeout for the existing route.  If it is at least
   halfway to the expiration point, switch to the new route.  This
   heuristic is optional, but highly recommended.



Malkin & Minnear            Standards Track                    [Page 13]

RFC 2080                     RIPng for IPv6                 January 1997


   Any entry that fails these tests is ignored, as it is no better than
   the current route.

