2.5.2  Generating Response Messages

   This section describes how a Response message is generated for a
   particular directly-connected network:

   The IPv6 source address must be a link-local address of the possible
   addresses of the sending router's interface, except when replying to
   a unicast Request Message from a port other than the RIPng port.  In
   the latter case, the source address must be a globaly valid address.
   In the former case, it is important to use a link-local address
   because the source address is put into routing tables (as the next
   hop) in the routers which receive this Response.  If an incorrect
   source address is used, other routers may be unable to route
   datagrams.  Sometimes routers are set up with multiple IPv6 addresses
   on a single physical interface.  Normally, this means that several
   logical IPv6 networks are being carried over one physical medium.  It
   is possible that a router may have multiple link-local addresses for



Malkin & Minnear            Standards Track                    [Page 15]

RFC 2080                     RIPng for IPv6                 January 1997


   a single interface. In this case, the router must only originate a
   single Response message with a source address of the designated
   link-local address for a given interface.  The choice of which link-
   local address to use should only change when the current choice is no
   longer valid.  This is necessary because nodes receiving Response
   messages use the source address to identify the sender.  If multiple
   packets from the same router contain different source addresses,
   nodes will assume they come from different routers, leading to
   undesirable behavior.

   Set the version number to the current version of RIPng.  The version
   described in this document is version 1.  Set the command to
   Response.  Set the bytes labeled "must be zero" to zero.  Start
   filling in RTEs.  Recall that the maximum datagram size is limited by
   the network's MTU.  When there is no more space in the datagram, send
   the current Response and start a new one.

   To fill in the RTEs, examine each route in the routing table.  Routes
   to link-local addresses must never be included in an RTE.  If a
   triggered update is being generated, only entries whose route change
   flags are set need be included.  If, after Split Horizon processing,
   the route should not be included, skip it.  If the route is to be
   included, then the destination prefix, prefix length, and metric are
   put into the RTE.  The route tag is filled in as defined in section
   2.1.  Routes must be included in the datagram even if their metrics
   are infinite.

