3.1 Data Types, Values and Variables
====================================

This section discusses the representation of data types and values, what
it means for Scheme to be a “latently typed” language, and the role of
variables.  We conclude by introducing the Scheme syntaxes for defining
a new variable, and for changing the value of an existing variable.

* Menu:

* Latent Typing::               Scheme as a "latently typed" language.
* Values and Variables::        About data types, values and variables.
* Definition::                  Defining variables and setting their values.

File: guile.info,  Node: Latent Typing,  Next: Values and Variables,  Up: About Data

3.1.1 Latent Typing
-------------------

The term “latent typing” is used to describe a computer language, such
as Scheme, for which you cannot, _in general_, simply look at a
program’s source code and determine what type of data will be associated
with a particular variable, or with the result of a particular
expression.

   Sometimes, of course, you _can_ tell from the code what the type of
an expression will be.  If you have a line in your program that sets the
variable ‘x’ to the numeric value 1, you can be certain that,
immediately after that line has executed (and in the absence of multiple
threads), ‘x’ has the numeric value 1.  Or if you write a procedure that
is designed to concatenate two strings, it is likely that the rest of
your application will always invoke this procedure with two string
parameters, and quite probable that the procedure would go wrong in some
way if it was ever invoked with parameters that were not both strings.

   Nevertheless, the point is that there is nothing in Scheme which
requires the procedure parameters always to be strings, or ‘x’ always to
hold a numeric value, and there is no way of declaring in your program
that such constraints should always be obeyed.  In the same vein, there
is no way to declare the expected type of a procedure’s return value.

   Instead, the types of variables and expressions are only known – in
general – at run time.  If you _need_ to check at some point that a
value has the expected type, Scheme provides run time procedures that
you can invoke to do so.  But equally, it can be perfectly valid for two
separate invocations of the same procedure to specify arguments with
different types, and to return values with different types.

   The next subsection explains what this means in practice, for the
ways that Scheme programs use data types, values and variables.

File: guile.info,  Node: Values and Variables,  Next: Definition,  Prev: Latent Typing,  Up: About Data

3.1.2 Values and Variables
--------------------------

Scheme provides many data types that you can use to represent your data.
Primitive types include characters, strings, numbers and procedures.
Compound types, which allow a group of primitive and compound values to
be stored together, include lists, pairs, vectors and multi-dimensional
arrays.  In addition, Guile allows applications to define their own data
types, with the same status as the built-in standard Scheme types.

   As a Scheme program runs, values of all types pop in and out of
existence.  Sometimes values are stored in variables, but more commonly
they pass seamlessly from being the result of one computation to being
one of the parameters for the next.

   Consider an example.  A string value is created because the
interpreter reads in a literal string from your program’s source code.
Then a numeric value is created as the result of calculating the length
of the string.  A second numeric value is created by doubling the
calculated length.  Finally the program creates a list with two elements
– the doubled length and the original string itself – and stores this
list in a program variable.

   All of the values involved here – in fact, all values in Scheme –
carry their type with them.  In other words, every value “knows,” at
runtime, what kind of value it is.  A number, a string, a list,
whatever.

   A variable, on the other hand, has no fixed type.  A variable – ‘x’,
say – is simply the name of a location – a box – in which you can store
any kind of Scheme value.  So the same variable in a program may hold a
number at one moment, a list of procedures the next, and later a pair of
strings.  The “type” of a variable – insofar as the idea is meaningful
at all – is simply the type of whatever value the variable happens to be
storing at a particular moment.

File: guile.info,  Node: Definition,  Prev: Values and Variables,  Up: About Data

3.1.3 Defining and Setting Variables
------------------------------------

To define a new variable, you use Scheme’s ‘define’ syntax like this:

     (define VARIABLE-NAME VALUE)

   This makes a new variable called VARIABLE-NAME and stores VALUE in it
as the variable’s initial value.  For example:

     ;; Make a variable `x' with initial numeric value 1.
     (define x 1)

     ;; Make a variable `organization' with an initial string value.
     (define organization "Free Software Foundation")

   (In Scheme, a semicolon marks the beginning of a comment that
continues until the end of the line.  So the lines beginning ‘;;’ are
comments.)

   Changing the value of an already existing variable is very similar,
except that ‘define’ is replaced by the Scheme syntax ‘set!’, like this:

     (set! VARIABLE-NAME NEW-VALUE)

   Remember that variables do not have fixed types, so NEW-VALUE may
have a completely different type from whatever was previously stored in
the location named by VARIABLE-NAME.  Both of the following examples are
therefore correct.

     ;; Change the value of `x' to 5.
     (set! x 5)

     ;; Change the value of `organization' to the FSF's street number.
     (set! organization 545)

   In these examples, VALUE and NEW-VALUE are literal numeric or string
values.  In general, however, VALUE and NEW-VALUE can be any Scheme
expression.  Even though we have not yet covered the forms that Scheme
expressions can take (*note About Expressions::), you can probably guess
what the following ‘set!’ example does...

     (set! x (+ x 1))

   (Note: this is not a complete description of ‘define’ and ‘set!’,
because we need to introduce some other aspects of Scheme before the
missing pieces can be filled in.  If, however, you are already familiar
with the structure of Scheme, you may like to read about those missing
pieces immediately by jumping ahead to the following references.

   • *note Lambda Alternatives::, to read about an alternative form of
     the ‘define’ syntax that can be used when defining new procedures.

   • *note Procedures with Setters::, to read about an alternative form
     of the ‘set!’ syntax that helps with changing a single value in the
     depths of a compound data structure.)

   • *Note Internal Definitions::, to read about using ‘define’ other
     than at top level in a Scheme program, including a discussion of
     when it works to use ‘define’ rather than ‘set!’ to change the
     value of an existing variable.

File: guile.info,  Node: About Procedures,  Next: About Expressions,  Prev: About Data,  Up: Hello Scheme!

