3.2 The Representation and Use of Procedures
============================================

This section introduces the basics of using and creating Scheme
procedures.  It discusses the representation of procedures as just
another kind of Scheme value, and shows how procedure invocation
expressions are constructed.  We then explain how ‘lambda’ is used to
create new procedures, and conclude by presenting the various shorthand
forms of ‘define’ that can be used instead of writing an explicit
‘lambda’ expression.

* Menu:

* Procedures as Values::        Procedures are values like everything else.
* Simple Invocation::           How to write a simple procedure invocation.
* Creating a Procedure::        How to create your own procedures.
* Lambda Alternatives::         Other ways of writing procedure definitions.

File: guile.info,  Node: Procedures as Values,  Next: Simple Invocation,  Up: About Procedures

3.2.1 Procedures as Values
--------------------------

One of the great simplifications of Scheme is that a procedure is just
another type of value, and that procedure values can be passed around
and stored in variables in exactly the same way as, for example, strings
and lists.  When we talk about a built-in standard Scheme procedure such
as ‘open-input-file’, what we actually mean is that there is a
pre-defined top level variable called ‘open-input-file’, whose value is
a procedure that implements what R5RS says that ‘open-input-file’ should
do.

   Note that this is quite different from many dialects of Lisp —
including Emacs Lisp — in which a program can use the same name with two
quite separate meanings: one meaning identifies a Lisp function, while
the other meaning identifies a Lisp variable, whose value need have
nothing to do with the function that is associated with the first
meaning.  In these dialects, functions and variables are said to live in
different “namespaces”.

   In Scheme, on the other hand, all names belong to a single unified
namespace, and the variables that these names identify can hold any kind
of Scheme value, including procedure values.

   One consequence of the “procedures as values” idea is that, if you
don’t happen to like the standard name for a Scheme procedure, you can
change it.

   For example, ‘call-with-current-continuation’ is a very important
standard Scheme procedure, but it also has a very long name!  So, many
programmers use the following definition to assign the same procedure
value to the more convenient name ‘call/cc’.

     (define call/cc call-with-current-continuation)

   Let’s understand exactly how this works.  The definition creates a
new variable ‘call/cc’, and then sets its value to the value of the
variable ‘call-with-current-continuation’; the latter value is a
procedure that implements the behaviour that R5RS specifies under the
name “call-with-current-continuation”.  So ‘call/cc’ ends up holding
this value as well.

   Now that ‘call/cc’ holds the required procedure value, you could
choose to use ‘call-with-current-continuation’ for a completely
different purpose, or just change its value so that you will get an
error if you accidentally use ‘call-with-current-continuation’ as a
procedure in your program rather than ‘call/cc’.  For example:

     (set! call-with-current-continuation "Not a procedure any more!")

   Or you could just leave ‘call-with-current-continuation’ as it was.
It’s perfectly fine for more than one variable to hold the same
procedure value.

File: guile.info,  Node: Simple Invocation,  Next: Creating a Procedure,  Prev: Procedures as Values,  Up: About Procedures

3.2.2 Simple Procedure Invocation
---------------------------------

A procedure invocation in Scheme is written like this:

     (PROCEDURE [ARG1 [ARG2 ...]])

   In this expression, PROCEDURE can be any Scheme expression whose
value is a procedure.  Most commonly, however, PROCEDURE is simply the
name of a variable whose value is a procedure.

   For example, ‘string-append’ is a standard Scheme procedure whose
behaviour is to concatenate together all the arguments, which are
expected to be strings, that it is given.  So the expression

     (string-append "/home" "/" "andrew")

is a procedure invocation whose result is the string value
‘"/home/andrew"’.

   Similarly, ‘string-length’ is a standard Scheme procedure that
returns the length of a single string argument, so

     (string-length "abc")

is a procedure invocation whose result is the numeric value 3.

   Each of the parameters in a procedure invocation can itself be any
Scheme expression.  Since a procedure invocation is itself a type of
expression, we can put these two examples together to get

     (string-length (string-append "/home" "/" "andrew"))

— a procedure invocation whose result is the numeric value 12.

   (You may be wondering what happens if the two examples are combined
the other way round.  If we do this, we can make a procedure invocation
expression that is _syntactically_ correct:

     (string-append "/home" (string-length "abc"))

but when this expression is executed, it will cause an error, because
the result of ‘(string-length "abc")’ is a numeric value, and
‘string-append’ is not designed to accept a numeric value as one of its
arguments.)

File: guile.info,  Node: Creating a Procedure,  Next: Lambda Alternatives,  Prev: Simple Invocation,  Up: About Procedures

3.2.3 Creating and Using a New Procedure
----------------------------------------

Scheme has lots of standard procedures, and Guile provides all of these
via predefined top level variables.  All of these standard procedures
are documented in the later chapters of this reference manual.

   Before very long, though, you will want to create new procedures that
encapsulate aspects of your own applications’ functionality.  To do
this, you can use the famous ‘lambda’ syntax.

   For example, the value of the following Scheme expression

     (lambda (name address) EXPRESSION ...)

is a newly created procedure that takes two arguments: ‘name’ and
‘address’.  The behaviour of the new procedure is determined by the
sequence of EXPRESSIONs in the “body” of the procedure definition.
(Typically, these EXPRESSIONs would use the arguments in some way, or
else there wouldn’t be any point in giving them to the procedure.)  When
invoked, the new procedure returns a value that is the value of the last
EXPRESSION in the procedure body.

   To make things more concrete, let’s suppose that the two arguments
are both strings, and that the purpose of this procedure is to form a
combined string that includes these arguments.  Then the full lambda
expression might look like this:

     (lambda (name address)
       (string-append "Name=" name ":Address=" address))

   We noted in the previous subsection that the PROCEDURE part of a
procedure invocation expression can be any Scheme expression whose value
is a procedure.  But that’s exactly what a lambda expression is!  So we
can use a lambda expression directly in a procedure invocation, like
this:

     ((lambda (name address)
        (string-append "Name=" name ":Address=" address))
      "FSF"
      "Cambridge")

This is a valid procedure invocation expression, and its result is the
string:

     "Name=FSF:Address=Cambridge"

   It is more common, though, to store the procedure value in a variable
—

     (define make-combined-string
       (lambda (name address)
         (string-append "Name=" name ":Address=" address)))

— and then to use the variable name in the procedure invocation:

     (make-combined-string "FSF" "Cambridge")

Which has exactly the same result.

   It’s important to note that procedures created using ‘lambda’ have
exactly the same status as the standard built in Scheme procedures, and
can be invoked, passed around, and stored in variables in exactly the
same ways.

File: guile.info,  Node: Lambda Alternatives,  Prev: Creating a Procedure,  Up: About Procedures

3.2.4 Lambda Alternatives
-------------------------

Since it is so common in Scheme programs to want to create a procedure
and then store it in a variable, there is an alternative form of the
‘define’ syntax that allows you to do just that.

   A ‘define’ expression of the form

     (define (NAME [ARG1 [ARG2 ...]])
       EXPRESSION ...)

is exactly equivalent to the longer form

     (define NAME
       (lambda ([ARG1 [ARG2 ...]])
         EXPRESSION ...))

   So, for example, the definition of ‘make-combined-string’ in the
previous subsection could equally be written:

     (define (make-combined-string name address)
       (string-append "Name=" name ":Address=" address))

   This kind of procedure definition creates a procedure that requires
exactly the expected number of arguments.  There are two further forms
of the ‘lambda’ expression, which create a procedure that can accept a
variable number of arguments:

     (lambda (ARG1 ... . ARGS) EXPRESSION ...)

     (lambda ARGS EXPRESSION ...)

The corresponding forms of the alternative ‘define’ syntax are:

     (define (NAME ARG1 ... . ARGS) EXPRESSION ...)

     (define (NAME . ARGS) EXPRESSION ...)

For details on how these forms work, see *Note Lambda::.

   Prior to Guile 2.0, Guile provided an extension to ‘define’ syntax
that allowed you to nest the previous extension up to an arbitrary
depth.  These are no longer provided by default, and instead have been
moved to *note Curried Definitions::

   (It could be argued that the alternative ‘define’ forms are rather
confusing, especially for newcomers to the Scheme language, as they hide
both the role of ‘lambda’ and the fact that procedures are values that
are stored in variables in the some way as any other kind of value.  On
the other hand, they are very convenient, and they are also a good
example of another of Scheme’s powerful features: the ability to specify
arbitrary syntactic transformations at run time, which can be applied to
subsequently read input.)

File: guile.info,  Node: About Expressions,  Next: About Closure,  Prev: About Procedures,  Up: Hello Scheme!

