3.3 Expressions and Evaluation
==============================

So far, we have met expressions that _do_ things, such as the ‘define’
expressions that create and initialize new variables, and we have also
talked about expressions that have _values_, for example the value of
the procedure invocation expression:

     (string-append "/home" "/" "andrew")

but we haven’t yet been precise about what causes an expression like
this procedure invocation to be reduced to its “value”, or how the
processing of such expressions relates to the execution of a Scheme
program as a whole.

   This section clarifies what we mean by an expression’s value, by
introducing the idea of “evaluation”.  It discusses the side effects
that evaluation can have, explains how each of the various types of
Scheme expression is evaluated, and describes the behaviour and use of
the Guile REPL as a mechanism for exploring evaluation.  The section
concludes with a very brief summary of Scheme’s common syntactic
expressions.

* Menu:

* Evaluating::                  How a Scheme program is executed.
* Tail Calls::                  Space-safe recursion.
* The REPL::                    Interacting with the Guile interpreter.
* Syntax Summary::              Common syntactic expressions – in brief.

File: guile.info,  Node: Evaluating,  Next: Tail Calls,  Up: About Expressions

3.3.1 Evaluating Expressions and Executing Programs
---------------------------------------------------

In Scheme, the process of executing an expression is known as
“evaluation”.  Evaluation has two kinds of result:

   • the “value” of the evaluated expression

   • the “side effects” of the evaluation, which consist of any effects
     of evaluating the expression that are not represented by the value.

   Of the expressions that we have met so far, ‘define’ and ‘set!’
expressions have side effects — the creation or modification of a
variable — but no value; ‘lambda’ expressions have values — the newly
constructed procedures — but no side effects; and procedure invocation
expressions, in general, have either values, or side effects, or both.

   It is tempting to try to define more intuitively what we mean by
“value” and “side effects”, and what the difference between them is.  In
general, though, this is extremely difficult.  It is also unnecessary;
instead, we can quite happily define the behaviour of a Scheme program
by specifying how Scheme executes a program as a whole, and then by
describing the value and side effects of evaluation for each type of
expression individually.

So, some(1) definitions...

   • A Scheme program consists of a sequence of expressions.

   • A Scheme interpreter executes the program by evaluating these
     expressions in order, one by one.

   • An expression can be

        • a piece of literal data, such as a number ‘2.3’ or a string
          ‘"Hello world!"’
        • a variable name
        • a procedure invocation expression
        • one of Scheme’s special syntactic expressions.

The following subsections describe how each of these types of expression
is evaluated.

* Menu:

* Eval Literal::                Evaluating literal data.
* Eval Variable::               Evaluating variable references.
* Eval Procedure::              Evaluating procedure invocation expressions.
* Eval Special::                Evaluating special syntactic expressions.

   ---------- Footnotes ----------

   (1) These definitions are approximate.  For the whole and detailed
truth, see *note R5RS syntax: (r5rs)Formal syntax and semantics.

File: guile.info,  Node: Eval Literal,  Next: Eval Variable,  Up: Evaluating

3.3.1.1 Evaluating Literal Data
...............................

When a literal data expression is evaluated, the value of the expression
is simply the value that the expression describes.  The evaluation of a
literal data expression has no side effects.

So, for example,

   • the value of the expression ‘"abc"’ is the string value ‘"abc"’

   • the value of the expression ‘3+4i’ is the complex number 3 + 4i

   • the value of the expression ‘#(1 2 3)’ is a three-element vector
     containing the numeric values 1, 2 and 3.

   For any data type which can be expressed literally like this, the
syntax of the literal data expression for that data type — in other
words, what you need to write in your code to indicate a literal value
of that type — is known as the data type’s “read syntax”.  This manual
specifies the read syntax for each such data type in the section that
describes that data type.

   Some data types do not have a read syntax.  Procedures, for example,
cannot be expressed as literal data; they must be created using a
‘lambda’ expression (*note Creating a Procedure::) or implicitly using
the shorthand form of ‘define’ (*note Lambda Alternatives::).

File: guile.info,  Node: Eval Variable,  Next: Eval Procedure,  Prev: Eval Literal,  Up: Evaluating

3.3.1.2 Evaluating a Variable Reference
.......................................

When an expression that consists simply of a variable name is evaluated,
the value of the expression is the value of the named variable.  The
evaluation of a variable reference expression has no side effects.

   So, after

     (define key "Paul Evans")

the value of the expression ‘key’ is the string value ‘"Paul Evans"’.
If KEY is then modified by

     (set! key 3.74)

the value of the expression ‘key’ is the numeric value 3.74.

   If there is no variable with the specified name, evaluation of the
variable reference expression signals an error.

File: guile.info,  Node: Eval Procedure,  Next: Eval Special,  Prev: Eval Variable,  Up: Evaluating

3.3.1.3 Evaluating a Procedure Invocation Expression
....................................................

This is where evaluation starts getting interesting!  As already noted,
a procedure invocation expression has the form

     (PROCEDURE [ARG1 [ARG2 ...]])

where PROCEDURE must be an expression whose value, when evaluated, is a
procedure.

   The evaluation of a procedure invocation expression like this
proceeds by

   • evaluating individually the expressions PROCEDURE, ARG1, ARG2, and
     so on

   • calling the procedure that is the value of the PROCEDURE expression
     with the list of values obtained from the evaluations of ARG1, ARG2
     etc.  as its parameters.

   For a procedure defined in Scheme, “calling the procedure with the
list of values as its parameters” means binding the values to the
procedure’s formal parameters and then evaluating the sequence of
expressions that make up the body of the procedure definition.  The
value of the procedure invocation expression is the value of the last
evaluated expression in the procedure body.  The side effects of calling
the procedure are the combination of the side effects of the sequence of
evaluations of expressions in the procedure body.

   For a built-in procedure, the value and side-effects of calling the
procedure are best described by that procedure’s documentation.

   Note that the complete side effects of evaluating a procedure
invocation expression consist not only of the side effects of the
procedure call, but also of any side effects of the preceding evaluation
of the expressions PROCEDURE, ARG1, ARG2, and so on.

   To illustrate this, let’s look again at the procedure invocation
expression:

     (string-length (string-append "/home" "/" "andrew"))

   In the outermost expression, PROCEDURE is ‘string-length’ and ARG1 is
‘(string-append "/home" "/" "andrew")’.

   • Evaluation of ‘string-length’, which is a variable, gives a
     procedure value that implements the expected behaviour for
     “string-length”.

   • Evaluation of ‘(string-append "/home" "/" "andrew")’, which is
     another procedure invocation expression, means evaluating each of

        • ‘string-append’, which gives a procedure value that implements
          the expected behaviour for “string-append”

        • ‘"/home"’, which gives the string value ‘"/home"’

        • ‘"/"’, which gives the string value ‘"/"’

        • ‘"andrew"’, which gives the string value ‘"andrew"’

     and then invoking the procedure value with this list of string
     values as its arguments.  The resulting value is a single string
     value that is the concatenation of all the arguments, namely
     ‘"/home/andrew"’.

   In the evaluation of the outermost expression, the interpreter can
now invoke the procedure value obtained from PROCEDURE with the value
obtained from ARG1 as its arguments.  The resulting value is a numeric
value that is the length of the argument string, which is 12.

File: guile.info,  Node: Eval Special,  Prev: Eval Procedure,  Up: Evaluating

3.3.1.4 Evaluating Special Syntactic Expressions
................................................

When a procedure invocation expression is evaluated, the procedure and
_all_ the argument expressions must be evaluated before the procedure
can be invoked.  Special syntactic expressions are special because they
are able to manipulate their arguments in an unevaluated form, and can
choose whether to evaluate any or all of the argument expressions.

   Why is this needed?  Consider a program fragment that asks the user
whether or not to delete a file, and then deletes the file if the user
answers yes.

     (if (string=? (read-answer "Should I delete this file?")
                   "yes")
         (delete-file file))

   If the outermost ‘(if ...)’ expression here was a procedure
invocation expression, the expression ‘(delete-file file)’, whose side
effect is to actually delete a file, would already have been evaluated
before the ‘if’ procedure even got invoked!  Clearly this is no use —
the whole point of an ‘if’ expression is that the “consequent”
expression is only evaluated if the condition of the ‘if’ expression is
“true”.

   Therefore ‘if’ must be special syntax, not a procedure.  Other
special syntaxes that we have already met are ‘define’, ‘set!’ and
‘lambda’.  ‘define’ and ‘set!’ are syntax because they need to know the
variable _name_ that is given as the first argument in a ‘define’ or
‘set!’ expression, not that variable’s value.  ‘lambda’ is syntax
because it does not immediately evaluate the expressions that define the
procedure body; instead it creates a procedure object that incorporates
these expressions so that they can be evaluated in the future, when that
procedure is invoked.

   The rules for evaluating each special syntactic expression are
specified individually for each special syntax.  For a summary of
standard special syntax, see *Note Syntax Summary::.

File: guile.info,  Node: Tail Calls,  Next: The REPL,  Prev: Evaluating,  Up: About Expressions

3.3.2 Tail calls
----------------

Scheme is “properly tail recursive”, meaning that tail calls or
recursions from certain contexts do not consume stack space or other
resources and can therefore be used on arbitrarily large data or for an
arbitrarily long calculation.  Consider for example,

     (define (foo n)
       (display n)
       (newline)
       (foo (1+ n)))

     (foo 1)
     ⊣
     1
     2
     3
     ...

   ‘foo’ prints numbers infinitely, starting from the given N.  It’s
implemented by printing N then recursing to itself to print N+1 and so
on.  This recursion is a tail call, it’s the last thing done, and in
Scheme such tail calls can be made without limit.

   Or consider a case where a value is returned, a version of the SRFI-1
‘last’ function (*note SRFI-1 Selectors::) returning the last element of
a list,

     (define (my-last lst)
       (if (null? (cdr lst))
           (car lst)
           (my-last (cdr lst))))

     (my-last '(1 2 3)) ⇒ 3

   If the list has more than one element, ‘my-last’ applies itself to
the ‘cdr’.  This recursion is a tail call, there’s no code after it, and
the return value is the return value from that call.  In Scheme this can
be used on an arbitrarily long list argument.


   A proper tail call is only available from certain contexts, namely
the following special form positions,

   • ‘and’ — last expression

   • ‘begin’ — last expression

   • ‘case’ — last expression in each clause

   • ‘cond’ — last expression in each clause, and the call to a ‘=>’
     procedure is a tail call

   • ‘do’ — last result expression

   • ‘if’ — “true” and “false” leg expressions

   • ‘lambda’ — last expression in body

   • ‘let’, ‘let*’, ‘letrec’, ‘let-syntax’, ‘letrec-syntax’ — last
     expression in body

   • ‘or’ — last expression

The following core functions make tail calls,

   • ‘apply’ — tail call to given procedure

   • ‘call-with-current-continuation’ — tail call to the procedure
     receiving the new continuation

   • ‘call-with-values’ — tail call to the values-receiving procedure

   • ‘eval’ — tail call to evaluate the form

   • ‘string-any’, ‘string-every’ — tail call to predicate on the last
     character (if that point is reached)


   The above are just core functions and special forms.  Tail calls in
other modules are described with the relevant documentation, for example
SRFI-1 ‘any’ and ‘every’ (*note SRFI-1 Searching::).

   It will be noted there are a lot of places which could potentially be
tail calls, for instance the last call in a ‘for-each’, but only those
explicitly described are guaranteed.

File: guile.info,  Node: The REPL,  Next: Syntax Summary,  Prev: Tail Calls,  Up: About Expressions

3.3.3 Using the Guile REPL
--------------------------

If you start Guile without specifying a particular program for it to
execute, Guile enters its standard Read Evaluate Print Loop — or “REPL”
for short.  In this mode, Guile repeatedly reads in the next Scheme
expression that the user types, evaluates it, and prints the resulting
value.

   The REPL is a useful mechanism for exploring the evaluation behaviour
described in the previous subsection.  If you type ‘string-append’, for
example, the REPL replies ‘#<primitive-procedure string-append>’,
illustrating the relationship between the variable ‘string-append’ and
the procedure value stored in that variable.

   In this manual, the notation ⇒ is used to mean “evaluates to”.
Wherever you see an example of the form

     EXPRESSION
     ⇒
     RESULT

feel free to try it out yourself by typing EXPRESSION into the REPL and
checking that it gives the expected RESULT.

File: guile.info,  Node: Syntax Summary,  Prev: The REPL,  Up: About Expressions

3.3.4 Summary of Common Syntax
------------------------------

This subsection lists the most commonly used Scheme syntactic
expressions, simply so that you will recognize common special syntax
when you see it.  For a full description of each of these syntaxes,
follow the appropriate reference.

   ‘lambda’ (*note Lambda::) is used to construct procedure objects.

   ‘define’ (*note Top Level::) is used to create a new variable and set
its initial value.

   ‘set!’ (*note Top Level::) is used to modify an existing variable’s
value.

   ‘let’, ‘let*’ and ‘letrec’ (*note Local Bindings::) create an inner
lexical environment for the evaluation of a sequence of expressions, in
which a specified set of local variables is bound to the values of a
corresponding set of expressions.  For an introduction to environments,
see *Note About Closure::.

   ‘begin’ (*note begin::) executes a sequence of expressions in order
and returns the value of the last expression.  Note that this is not the
same as a procedure which returns its last argument, because the
evaluation of a procedure invocation expression does not guarantee to
evaluate the arguments in order.

   ‘if’ and ‘cond’ (*note Conditionals::) provide conditional evaluation
of argument expressions depending on whether one or more conditions
evaluate to “true” or “false”.

   ‘case’ (*note Conditionals::) provides conditional evaluation of
argument expressions depending on whether a variable has one of a
specified group of values.

   ‘and’ (*note and or::) executes a sequence of expressions in order
until either there are no expressions left, or one of them evaluates to
“false”.

   ‘or’ (*note and or::) executes a sequence of expressions in order
until either there are no expressions left, or one of them evaluates to
“true”.

File: guile.info,  Node: About Closure,  Next: Further Reading,  Prev: About Expressions,  Up: Hello Scheme!

