3.4 The Concept of Closure
==========================

The concept of “closure” is the idea that a lambda expression “captures”
the variable bindings that are in lexical scope at the point where the
lambda expression occurs.  The procedure created by the lambda
expression can refer to and mutate the captured bindings, and the values
of those bindings persist between procedure calls.

   This section explains and explores the various parts of this idea in
more detail.

* Menu:

* About Environments::          Names, locations, values and environments.
* Local Variables::             Local variables and local environments.
* Chaining::                    Environment chaining.
* Lexical Scope::               The meaning of lexical scoping.
* Closure::                     Explaining the concept of closure.
* Serial Number::               Example 1: a serial number generator.
* Shared Variable::             Example 2: a shared persistent variable.
* Callback Closure::            Example 3: the callback closure problem.
* OO Closure::                  Example 4: object orientation.

File: guile.info,  Node: About Environments,  Next: Local Variables,  Up: About Closure

3.4.1 Names, Locations, Values and Environments
-----------------------------------------------

We said earlier that a variable name in a Scheme program is associated
with a location in which any kind of Scheme value may be stored.
(Incidentally, the term “vcell” is often used in Lisp and Scheme circles
as an alternative to “location”.)  Thus part of what we mean when we
talk about “creating a variable” is in fact establishing an association
between a name, or identifier, that is used by the Scheme program code,
and the variable location to which that name refers.  Although the value
that is stored in that location may change, the location to which a
given name refers is always the same.

   We can illustrate this by breaking down the operation of the ‘define’
syntax into three parts: ‘define’

   • creates a new location

   • establishes an association between that location and the name
     specified as the first argument of the ‘define’ expression

   • stores in that location the value obtained by evaluating the second
     argument of the ‘define’ expression.

   A collection of associations between names and locations is called an
“environment”.  When you create a top level variable in a program using
‘define’, the name-location association for that variable is added to
the “top level” environment.  The “top level” environment also includes
name-location associations for all the procedures that are supplied by
standard Scheme.

   It is also possible to create environments other than the top level
one, and to create variable bindings, or name-location associations, in
those environments.  This ability is a key ingredient in the concept of
closure; the next subsection shows how it is done.

File: guile.info,  Node: Local Variables,  Next: Chaining,  Prev: About Environments,  Up: About Closure

3.4.2 Local Variables and Environments
--------------------------------------

We have seen how to create top level variables using the ‘define’ syntax
(*note Definition::).  It is often useful to create variables that are
more limited in their scope, typically as part of a procedure body.  In
Scheme, this is done using the ‘let’ syntax, or one of its modified
forms ‘let*’ and ‘letrec’.  These syntaxes are described in full later
in the manual (*note Local Bindings::).  Here our purpose is to
illustrate their use just enough that we can see how local variables
work.

   For example, the following code uses a local variable ‘s’ to simplify
the computation of the area of a triangle given the lengths of its three
sides.

     (define a 5.3)
     (define b 4.7)
     (define c 2.8)

     (define area
       (let ((s (/ (+ a b c) 2)))
         (sqrt (* s (- s a) (- s b) (- s c)))))

   The effect of the ‘let’ expression is to create a new environment
and, within this environment, an association between the name ‘s’ and a
new location whose initial value is obtained by evaluating ‘(/ (+ a b c)
2)’.  The expressions in the body of the ‘let’, namely ‘(sqrt (* s (- s
a) (- s b) (- s c)))’, are then evaluated in the context of the new
environment, and the value of the last expression evaluated becomes the
value of the whole ‘let’ expression, and therefore the value of the
variable ‘area’.

File: guile.info,  Node: Chaining,  Next: Lexical Scope,  Prev: Local Variables,  Up: About Closure

3.4.3 Environment Chaining
--------------------------

In the example of the previous subsection, we glossed over an important
point.  The body of the ‘let’ expression in that example refers not only
to the local variable ‘s’, but also to the top level variables ‘a’, ‘b’,
‘c’ and ‘sqrt’.  (‘sqrt’ is the standard Scheme procedure for
calculating a square root.)  If the body of the ‘let’ expression is
evaluated in the context of the _local_ ‘let’ environment, how does the
evaluation get at the values of these top level variables?

   The answer is that the local environment created by a ‘let’
expression automatically has a reference to its containing environment —
in this case the top level environment — and that the Scheme interpreter
automatically looks for a variable binding in the containing environment
if it doesn’t find one in the local environment.  More generally, every
environment except for the top level one has a reference to its
containing environment, and the interpreter keeps searching back up the
chain of environments — from most local to top level — until it either
finds a variable binding for the required identifier or exhausts the
chain.

   This description also determines what happens when there is more than
one variable binding with the same name.  Suppose, continuing the
example of the previous subsection, that there was also a pre-existing
top level variable ‘s’ created by the expression:

     (define s "Some beans, my lord!")

   Then both the top level environment and the local ‘let’ environment
would contain bindings for the name ‘s’.  When evaluating code within
the ‘let’ body, the interpreter looks first in the local ‘let’
environment, and so finds the binding for ‘s’ created by the ‘let’
syntax.  Even though this environment has a reference to the top level
environment, which also has a binding for ‘s’, the interpreter doesn’t
get as far as looking there.  When evaluating code outside the ‘let’
body, the interpreter looks up variable names in the top level
environment, so the name ‘s’ refers to the top level variable.

   Within the ‘let’ body, the binding for ‘s’ in the local environment
is said to “shadow” the binding for ‘s’ in the top level environment.

File: guile.info,  Node: Lexical Scope,  Next: Closure,  Prev: Chaining,  Up: About Closure

3.4.4 Lexical Scope
-------------------

The rules that we have just been describing are the details of how
Scheme implements “lexical scoping”.  This subsection takes a brief
diversion to explain what lexical scope means in general and to present
an example of non-lexical scoping.

   “Lexical scope” in general is the idea that

   • an identifier at a particular place in a program always refers to
     the same variable location — where “always” means “every time that
     the containing expression is executed”, and that

   • the variable location to which it refers can be determined by
     static examination of the source code context in which that
     identifier appears, without having to consider the flow of
     execution through the program as a whole.

   In practice, lexical scoping is the norm for most programming
languages, and probably corresponds to what you would intuitively
consider to be “normal”.  You may even be wondering how the situation
could possibly — and usefully — be otherwise.  To demonstrate that
another kind of scoping is possible, therefore, and to compare it
against lexical scoping, the following subsection presents an example of
non-lexical scoping and examines in detail how its behavior differs from
the corresponding lexically scoped code.

* Menu:

* Scoping Example::             An example of non-lexical scoping.

File: guile.info,  Node: Scoping Example,  Up: Lexical Scope

3.4.4.1 An Example of Non-Lexical Scoping
.........................................

To demonstrate that non-lexical scoping does exist and can be useful, we
present the following example from Emacs Lisp, which is a “dynamically
scoped” language.

     (defvar currency-abbreviation "USD")

     (defun currency-string (units hundredths)
       (concat currency-abbreviation
               (number-to-string units)
               "."
               (number-to-string hundredths)))

     (defun french-currency-string (units hundredths)
       (let ((currency-abbreviation "FRF"))
         (currency-string units hundredths)))

   The question to focus on here is: what does the identifier
‘currency-abbreviation’ refer to in the ‘currency-string’ function?  The
answer, in Emacs Lisp, is that all variable bindings go onto a single
stack, and that ‘currency-abbreviation’ refers to the topmost binding
from that stack which has the name “currency-abbreviation”.  The binding
that is created by the ‘defvar’ form, to the value ‘"USD"’, is only
relevant if none of the code that calls ‘currency-string’ rebinds the
name “currency-abbreviation” in the meanwhile.

   The second function ‘french-currency-string’ works precisely by
taking advantage of this behaviour.  It creates a new binding for the
name “currency-abbreviation” which overrides the one established by the
‘defvar’ form.

     ;; Note!  This is Emacs Lisp evaluation, not Scheme!
     (french-currency-string 33 44)
     ⇒
     "FRF33.44"

   Now let’s look at the corresponding, _lexically scoped_ Scheme code:

     (define currency-abbreviation "USD")

     (define (currency-string units hundredths)
       (string-append currency-abbreviation
                      (number->string units)
                      "."
                      (number->string hundredths)))

     (define (french-currency-string units hundredths)
       (let ((currency-abbreviation "FRF"))
         (currency-string units hundredths)))

   According to the rules of lexical scoping, the
‘currency-abbreviation’ in ‘currency-string’ refers to the variable
location in the innermost environment at that point in the code which
has a binding for ‘currency-abbreviation’, which is the variable
location in the top level environment created by the preceding ‘(define
currency-abbreviation ...)’ expression.

   In Scheme, therefore, the ‘french-currency-string’ procedure does not
work as intended.  The variable binding that it creates for
“currency-abbreviation” is purely local to the code that forms the body
of the ‘let’ expression.  Since this code doesn’t directly use the name
“currency-abbreviation” at all, the binding is pointless.

     (french-currency-string 33 44)
     ⇒
     "USD33.44"

   This begs the question of how the Emacs Lisp behaviour can be
implemented in Scheme.  In general, this is a design question whose
answer depends upon the problem that is being addressed.  In this case,
the best answer may be that ‘currency-string’ should be redesigned so
that it can take an optional third argument.  This third argument, if
supplied, is interpreted as a currency abbreviation that overrides the
default.

   It is possible to change ‘french-currency-string’ so that it mostly
works without changing ‘currency-string’, but the fix is inelegant, and
susceptible to interrupts that could leave the ‘currency-abbreviation’
variable in the wrong state:

     (define (french-currency-string units hundredths)
       (set! currency-abbreviation "FRF")
       (let ((result (currency-string units hundredths)))
         (set! currency-abbreviation "USD")
         result))

   The key point here is that the code does not create any local binding
for the identifier ‘currency-abbreviation’, so all occurrences of this
identifier refer to the top level variable.

File: guile.info,  Node: Closure,  Next: Serial Number,  Prev: Lexical Scope,  Up: About Closure

3.4.5 Closure
-------------

Consider a ‘let’ expression that doesn’t contain any ‘lambda’s:

     (let ((s (/ (+ a b c) 2)))
       (sqrt (* s (- s a) (- s b) (- s c))))

When the Scheme interpreter evaluates this, it

   • creates a new environment with a reference to the environment that
     was current when it encountered the ‘let’

   • creates a variable binding for ‘s’ in the new environment, with
     value given by ‘(/ (+ a b c) 2)’

   • evaluates the expression in the body of the ‘let’ in the context of
     the new local environment, and remembers the value ‘V’

   • forgets the local environment

   • continues evaluating the expression that contained the ‘let’, using
     the value ‘V’ as the value of the ‘let’ expression, in the context
     of the containing environment.

   After the ‘let’ expression has been evaluated, the local environment
that was created is simply forgotten, and there is no longer any way to
access the binding that was created in this environment.  If the same
code is evaluated again, it will follow the same steps again, creating a
second new local environment that has no connection with the first, and
then forgetting this one as well.

   If the ‘let’ body contains a ‘lambda’ expression, however, the local
environment is _not_ forgotten.  Instead, it becomes associated with the
procedure that is created by the ‘lambda’ expression, and is reinstated
every time that that procedure is called.  In detail, this works as
follows.

   • When the Scheme interpreter evaluates a ‘lambda’ expression, to
     create a procedure object, it stores the current environment as
     part of the procedure definition.

   • Then, whenever that procedure is called, the interpreter reinstates
     the environment that is stored in the procedure definition and
     evaluates the procedure body within the context of that
     environment.

   The result is that the procedure body is always evaluated in the
context of the environment that was current when the procedure was
created.

   This is what is meant by “closure”.  The next few subsections present
examples that explore the usefulness of this concept.

File: guile.info,  Node: Serial Number,  Next: Shared Variable,  Prev: Closure,  Up: About Closure

3.4.6 Example 1: A Serial Number Generator
------------------------------------------

This example uses closure to create a procedure with a variable binding
that is private to the procedure, like a local variable, but whose value
persists between procedure calls.

     (define (make-serial-number-generator)
       (let ((current-serial-number 0))
         (lambda ()
           (set! current-serial-number (+ current-serial-number 1))
           current-serial-number)))

     (define entry-sn-generator (make-serial-number-generator))

     (entry-sn-generator)
     ⇒
     1

     (entry-sn-generator)
     ⇒
     2

   When ‘make-serial-number-generator’ is called, it creates a local
environment with a binding for ‘current-serial-number’ whose initial
value is 0, then, within this environment, creates a procedure.  The
local environment is stored within the created procedure object and so
persists for the lifetime of the created procedure.

   Every time the created procedure is invoked, it increments the value
of the ‘current-serial-number’ binding in the captured environment and
then returns the current value.

   Note that ‘make-serial-number-generator’ can be called again to
create a second serial number generator that is independent of the
first.  Every new invocation of ‘make-serial-number-generator’ creates a
new local ‘let’ environment and returns a new procedure object with an
association to this environment.

File: guile.info,  Node: Shared Variable,  Next: Callback Closure,  Prev: Serial Number,  Up: About Closure

3.4.7 Example 2: A Shared Persistent Variable
---------------------------------------------

This example uses closure to create two procedures, ‘get-balance’ and
‘deposit’, that both refer to the same captured local environment so
that they can both access the ‘balance’ variable binding inside that
environment.  The value of this variable binding persists between calls
to either procedure.

   Note that the captured ‘balance’ variable binding is private to these
two procedures: it is not directly accessible to any other code.  It can
only be accessed indirectly via ‘get-balance’ or ‘deposit’, as
illustrated by the ‘withdraw’ procedure.

     (define get-balance #f)
     (define deposit #f)

     (let ((balance 0))
       (set! get-balance
             (lambda ()
               balance))
       (set! deposit
             (lambda (amount)
               (set! balance (+ balance amount))
               balance)))

     (define (withdraw amount)
       (deposit (- amount)))

     (get-balance)
     ⇒
     0

     (deposit 50)
     ⇒
     50

     (withdraw 75)
     ⇒
     -25

   An important detail here is that the ‘get-balance’ and ‘deposit’
variables must be set up by ‘define’ing them at top level and then
‘set!’ing their values inside the ‘let’ body.  Using ‘define’ within the
‘let’ body would not work: this would create variable bindings within
the local ‘let’ environment that would not be accessible at top level.

File: guile.info,  Node: Callback Closure,  Next: OO Closure,  Prev: Shared Variable,  Up: About Closure

3.4.8 Example 3: The Callback Closure Problem
---------------------------------------------

A frequently used programming model for library code is to allow an
application to register a callback function for the library to call when
some particular event occurs.  It is often useful for the application to
make several such registrations using the same callback function, for
example if several similar library events can be handled using the same
application code, but the need then arises to distinguish the callback
function calls that are associated with one callback registration from
those that are associated with different callback registrations.

   In languages without the ability to create functions dynamically,
this problem is usually solved by passing a ‘user_data’ parameter on the
registration call, and including the value of this parameter as one of
the parameters on the callback function.  Here is an example of
declarations using this solution in C:

     typedef void (event_handler_t) (int event_type,
                                     void *user_data);

     void register_callback (int event_type,
                             event_handler_t *handler,
                             void *user_data);

   In Scheme, closure can be used to achieve the same functionality
without requiring the library code to store a ‘user-data’ for each
callback registration.

     ;; In the library:

     (define (register-callback event-type handler-proc)
       ...)

     ;; In the application:

     (define (make-handler event-type user-data)
       (lambda ()
         ...
         <code referencing event-type and user-data>
         ...))

     (register-callback event-type
                        (make-handler event-type ...))

   As far as the library is concerned, ‘handler-proc’ is a procedure
with no arguments, and all the library has to do is call it when the
appropriate event occurs.  From the application’s point of view, though,
the handler procedure has used closure to capture an environment that
includes all the context that the handler code needs — ‘event-type’ and
‘user-data’ — to handle the event correctly.

File: guile.info,  Node: OO Closure,  Prev: Callback Closure,  Up: About Closure

3.4.9 Example 4: Object Orientation
-----------------------------------

Closure is the capture of an environment, containing persistent variable
bindings, within the definition of a procedure or a set of related
procedures.  This is rather similar to the idea in some object oriented
languages of encapsulating a set of related data variables inside an
“object”, together with a set of “methods” that operate on the
encapsulated data.  The following example shows how closure can be used
to emulate the ideas of objects, methods and encapsulation in Scheme.

     (define (make-account)
       (let ((balance 0))
         (define (get-balance)
           balance)
         (define (deposit amount)
           (set! balance (+ balance amount))
           balance)
         (define (withdraw amount)
           (deposit (- amount)))

         (lambda args
           (apply
             (case (car args)
               ((get-balance) get-balance)
               ((deposit) deposit)
               ((withdraw) withdraw)
               (else (error "Invalid method!")))
             (cdr args)))))

   Each call to ‘make-account’ creates and returns a new procedure,
created by the expression in the example code that begins “(lambda
args”.

     (define my-account (make-account))

     my-account
     ⇒
     #<procedure args>

   This procedure acts as an account object with methods ‘get-balance’,
‘deposit’ and ‘withdraw’.  To apply one of the methods to the account,
you call the procedure with a symbol indicating the required method as
the first parameter, followed by any other parameters that are required
by that method.

     (my-account 'get-balance)
     ⇒
     0

     (my-account 'withdraw 5)
     ⇒
     -5

     (my-account 'deposit 396)
     ⇒
     391

     (my-account 'get-balance)
     ⇒
     391

   Note how, in this example, both the current balance and the helper
procedures ‘get-balance’, ‘deposit’ and ‘withdraw’, used to implement
the guts of the account object’s methods, are all stored in variable
bindings within the private local environment captured by the ‘lambda’
expression that creates the account object procedure.

File: guile.info,  Node: Further Reading,  Prev: About Closure,  Up: Hello Scheme!

