6.12 Definitions and Variable Bindings
======================================

Scheme supports the definition of variables in different contexts.
Variables can be defined at the top level, so that they are visible in
the entire program, and variables can be defined locally to procedures
and expressions.  This is important for modularity and data abstraction.

* Menu:

* Top Level::                   Top level variable definitions.
* Local Bindings::              Local variable bindings.
* Internal Definitions::        Internal definitions.
* Binding Reflection::          Querying variable bindings.
* Binding Multiple Values::     Binding multiple return values.

File: guile.info,  Node: Top Level,  Next: Local Bindings,  Up: Binding Constructs

6.12.1 Top Level Variable Definitions
-------------------------------------

At the top level of a program (i.e., not nested within any other
expression), a definition of the form

     (define a VALUE)

defines a variable called ‘a’ and sets it to the value VALUE.

   If the variable already exists in the current module, because it has
already been created by a previous ‘define’ expression with the same
name, its value is simply changed to the new VALUE.  In this case, then,
the above form is completely equivalent to

     (set! a VALUE)

This equivalence means that ‘define’ can be used interchangeably with
‘set!’ to change the value of variables at the top level of the REPL or
a Scheme source file.  It is useful during interactive development when
reloading a Scheme file that you have modified, because it allows the
‘define’ expressions in that file to work as expected both the first
time that the file is loaded and on subsequent occasions.

   Note, though, that ‘define’ and ‘set!’ are not always equivalent.
For example, a ‘set!’ is not allowed if the named variable does not
already exist, and the two expressions can behave differently in the
case where there are imported variables visible from another module.

 -- Scheme Syntax: define name value
     Create a top level variable named NAME with value VALUE.  If the
     named variable already exists, just change its value.  The return
     value of a ‘define’ expression is unspecified.

   The C API equivalents of ‘define’ are ‘scm_define’ and
‘scm_c_define’, which differ from each other in whether the variable
name is specified as a ‘SCM’ symbol or as a null-terminated C string.

 -- C Function: scm_define (sym, value)
 -- C Function: scm_c_define (const char *name, value)
     C equivalents of ‘define’, with variable name specified either by
     SYM, a symbol, or by NAME, a null-terminated C string.  Both
     variants return the new or preexisting variable object.

   ‘define’ (when it occurs at top level), ‘scm_define’ and
‘scm_c_define’ all create or set the value of a variable in the top
level environment of the current module.  If there was not already a
variable with the specified name belonging to the current module, but a
similarly named variable from another module was visible through having
been imported, the newly created variable in the current module will
shadow the imported variable, such that the imported variable is no
longer visible.

   Attention: Scheme definitions inside local binding constructs (*note
Local Bindings::) act differently (*note Internal Definitions::).

   Many people end up in a development style of adding and changing
definitions at runtime, building out their program without restarting
it.  (You can do this using ‘reload-module’, the ‘reload’ REPL command,
the ‘load’ procedure, or even just pasting code into a REPL.) If you are
one of these people, you will find that sometimes there are some
variables that you _don’t_ want to redefine all the time.  For these,
use ‘define-once’.

 -- Scheme Syntax: define-once name value
     Create a top level variable named NAME with value VALUE, but only
     if NAME is not already bound in the current module.

   Old Lispers probably know ‘define-once’ under its Lisp name,
‘defvar’.

File: guile.info,  Node: Local Bindings,  Next: Internal Definitions,  Prev: Top Level,  Up: Binding Constructs

6.12.2 Local Variable Bindings
------------------------------

As opposed to definitions at the top level, which creates bindings that
are visible to all code in a module, it is also possible to define
variables which are only visible in a well-defined part of the program.
Normally, this part of a program will be a procedure or a subexpression
of a procedure.

   With the constructs for local binding (‘let’, ‘let*’, ‘letrec’, and
‘letrec*’), the Scheme language has a block structure like most other
programming languages since the days of ALGOL 60.  Readers familiar to
languages like C or Java should already be used to this concept, but the
family of ‘let’ expressions has a few properties which are well worth
knowing.

   The most basic local binding construct is ‘let’.

 -- syntax: let bindings body
     BINDINGS has the form

          ((VARIABLE1 INIT1) ...)

     that is zero or more two-element lists of a variable and an
     arbitrary expression each.  All VARIABLE names must be distinct.

     A ‘let’ expression is evaluated as follows.

        • All INIT expressions are evaluated.

        • New storage is allocated for the VARIABLES.

        • The values of the INIT expressions are stored into the
          variables.

        • The expressions in BODY are evaluated in order, and the value
          of the last expression is returned as the value of the ‘let’
          expression.

     The INIT expressions are not allowed to refer to any of the
     VARIABLES.

   The other binding constructs are variations on the same theme: making
new values, binding them to variables, and executing a body in that new,
extended lexical context.

 -- syntax: let* bindings body
     Similar to ‘let’, but the variable bindings are performed
     sequentially, that means that all INIT expression are allowed to
     use the variables defined on their left in the binding list.

     A ‘let*’ expression can always be expressed with nested ‘let’
     expressions.

          (let* ((a 1) (b a))
             b)
          ≡
          (let ((a 1))
            (let ((b a))
              b))

 -- syntax: letrec bindings body
     Similar to ‘let’, but it is possible to refer to the VARIABLE from
     lambda expression created in any of the INITS.  That is, procedures
     created in the INIT expression can recursively refer to the defined
     variables.

          (letrec ((even? (lambda (n)
                            (if (zero? n)
                                #t
                                (odd? (- n 1)))))
                   (odd? (lambda (n)
                            (if (zero? n)
                                #f
                                (even? (- n 1))))))
            (even? 88))
          ⇒
          #t

     Note that while the INIT expressions may refer to the new
     variables, they may not access their values.  For example, making
     the ‘even?’ function above creates a closure (*note About
     Closure::) referencing the ‘odd?’ variable.  But ‘odd?’ can’t be
     called until after execution has entered the body.

 -- syntax: letrec* bindings body
     Similar to ‘letrec’, except the INIT expressions are bound to their
     variables in order.

     ‘letrec*’ thus relaxes the letrec restriction, in that later INIT
     expressions may refer to the values of previously bound variables.

          (letrec ((a 42)
                   (b (+ a 10)))  ;; Illegal access
            (* a b))
          ;; The behavior of the expression above is unspecified

          (letrec* ((a 42)
                    (b (+ a 10)))
            (* a b))
          ⇒ 2184

   There is also an alternative form of the ‘let’ form, which is used
for expressing iteration.  Because of the use as a looping construct,
this form (the “named let”) is documented in the section about iteration
(*note Iteration: while do.)

File: guile.info,  Node: Internal Definitions,  Next: Binding Reflection,  Prev: Local Bindings,  Up: Binding Constructs

6.12.3 Internal definitions
---------------------------

A ‘define’ form which appears inside the body of a ‘lambda’, ‘let’,
‘let*’, ‘letrec’, ‘letrec*’ or equivalent expression is called an
“internal definition”.  An internal definition differs from a top level
definition (*note Top Level::), because the definition is only visible
inside the complete body of the enclosing form.  Let us examine the
following example.

     (let ((frumble "froz"))
        (define banana (lambda () (apple 'peach)))
        (define apple (lambda (x) x))
        (banana))
     ⇒
     peach

   Here the enclosing form is a ‘let’, so the ‘define’s in the
‘let’-body are internal definitions.  Because the scope of the internal
definitions is the *complete* body of the ‘let’-expression, the
‘lambda’-expression which gets bound to the variable ‘banana’ may refer
to the variable ‘apple’, even though its definition appears lexically
_after_ the definition of ‘banana’.  This is because a sequence of
internal definition acts as if it were a ‘letrec*’ expression.

     (let ()
       (define a 1)
       (define b 2)
       (+ a b))

is equivalent to

     (let ()
       (letrec* ((a 1) (b 2))
         (+ a b)))

   Internal definitions are only allowed at the beginning of the body of
an enclosing expression.  They may not be mixed with other expressions.

   Another noteworthy difference to top level definitions is that within
one group of internal definitions all variable names must be distinct.
That means where on the top level a second define for a given variable
acts like a ‘set!’, an exception is thrown for internal definitions with
duplicate bindings.

   As a historical note, it used to be that internal bindings were
expanded in terms of ‘letrec’, not ‘letrec*’.  This was the situation
for the R5RS report and before.  However with the R6RS, it was
recognized that sequential definition was a more intuitive expansion, as
in the following case:

     (let ()
       (define a 1)
       (define b (+ a a))
       (+ a b))

Guile decided to follow the R6RS in this regard, and now expands
internal definitions using ‘letrec*’.

File: guile.info,  Node: Binding Reflection,  Next: Binding Multiple Values,  Prev: Internal Definitions,  Up: Binding Constructs

6.12.4 Querying variable bindings
---------------------------------

Guile provides a procedure for checking whether a symbol is bound in the
top level environment.

 -- Scheme Procedure: defined? sym [module]
 -- C Function: scm_defined_p (sym, module)
     Return ‘#t’ if SYM is defined in the module MODULE or the current
     module when MODULE is not specified; otherwise return ‘#f’.

File: guile.info,  Node: Binding Multiple Values,  Prev: Binding Reflection,  Up: Binding Constructs

6.12.5 Binding multiple return values
-------------------------------------

 -- Syntax: define-values formals expression
     The EXPRESSION is evaluated, and the FORMALS are bound to the
     return values in the same way that the formals in a ‘lambda’
     expression are matched to the arguments in a procedure call.

     (define-values (q r) (floor/ 10 3))
     (list q r) ⇒ (3 1)

     (define-values (x . y) (values 1 2 3))
     x ⇒ 1
     y ⇒ (2 3)

     (define-values x (values 1 2 3))
     x ⇒ (1 2 3)

File: guile.info,  Node: Control Mechanisms,  Next: Input and Output,  Prev: Binding Constructs,  Up: API Reference

