6.13 Controlling the Flow of Program Execution
==============================================

See *note Control Flow:: for a discussion of how the more general
control flow of Scheme affects C code.

* Menu:

* begin::                       Sequencing and splicing.
* Conditionals::                If, when, unless, case, and cond.
* and or::                      Conditional evaluation of a sequence.
* while do::                    Iteration mechanisms.
* Prompts::                     Composable, delimited continuations.
* Continuations::               Non-composable continuations.
* Multiple Values::             Returning and accepting multiple values.
* Exceptions::                  Throwing and catching exceptions.
* Error Reporting::             Procedures for signaling errors.
* Dynamic Wind::                Dealing with non-local entrance/exit.
* Handling Errors::             How to handle errors in C code.
* Continuation Barriers::       Protection from non-local control flow.

File: guile.info,  Node: begin,  Next: Conditionals,  Up: Control Mechanisms

6.13.1 Sequencing and Splicing
------------------------------

As an expression, the ‘begin’ syntax is used to evaluate a sequence of
sub-expressions in order.  Consider the conditional expression below:

     (if (> x 0)
         (begin (display "greater") (newline)))

   If the test is true, we want to display “greater” to the current
output port, then display a newline.  We use ‘begin’ to form a compound
expression out of this sequence of sub-expressions.

 -- syntax: begin expr ...
     The expression(s) are evaluated in left-to-right order and the
     value of the last expression is returned as the value of the
     ‘begin’-expression.  This expression type is used when the
     expressions before the last one are evaluated for their side
     effects.

   The ‘begin’ syntax has another role in definition context (*note
Internal Definitions::).  A ‘begin’ form in a definition context
“splices” its subforms into its place.  For example, consider the
following procedure:

     (define (make-seal)
       (define-sealant seal open)
       (values seal open))

   Let us assume the existence of a ‘define-sealant’ macro that expands
out to some definitions wrapped in a ‘begin’, like so:

     (define (make-seal)
       (begin
         (define seal-tag
           (list 'seal))
         (define (seal x)
           (cons seal-tag x))
         (define (sealed? x)
           (and (pair? x) (eq? (car x) seal-tag)))
         (define (open x)
           (if (sealed? x)
               (cdr x)
               (error "Expected a sealed value:" x))))
       (values seal open))

   Here, because the ‘begin’ is in definition context, its subforms are
“spliced” into the place of the ‘begin’.  This allows the definitions
created by the macro to be visible to the following expression, the
‘values’ form.

   It is a fine point, but splicing and sequencing are different.  It
can make sense to splice zero forms, because it can make sense to have
zero internal definitions before the expressions in a procedure or
lexical binding form.  However it does not make sense to have a sequence
of zero expressions, because in that case it would not be clear what the
value of the sequence would be, because in a sequence of zero
expressions, there can be no last value.  Sequencing zero expressions is
an error.

   It would be more elegant in some ways to eliminate splicing from the
Scheme language, and without macros (*note Macros::), that would be a
good idea.  But it is useful to be able to write macros that expand out
to multiple definitions, as in ‘define-sealant’ above, so Scheme abuses
the ‘begin’ form for these two tasks.

File: guile.info,  Node: Conditionals,  Next: and or,  Prev: begin,  Up: Control Mechanisms

6.13.2 Simple Conditional Evaluation
------------------------------------

Guile provides three syntactic constructs for conditional evaluation.
‘if’ is the normal if-then-else expression (with an optional else
branch), ‘cond’ is a conditional expression with multiple branches and
‘case’ branches if an expression has one of a set of constant values.

 -- syntax: if test consequent [alternate]
     All arguments may be arbitrary expressions.  First, TEST is
     evaluated.  If it returns a true value, the expression CONSEQUENT
     is evaluated and ALTERNATE is ignored.  If TEST evaluates to ‘#f’,
     ALTERNATE is evaluated instead.  The values of the evaluated branch
     (CONSEQUENT or ALTERNATE) are returned as the values of the ‘if’
     expression.

     When ALTERNATE is omitted and the TEST evaluates to ‘#f’, the value
     of the expression is not specified.

   When you go to write an ‘if’ without an alternate (a “one-armed
‘if’”), part of what you are expressing is that you don’t care about the
return value (or values) of the expression.  As such, you are more
interested in the _effect_ of evaluating the consequent expression.  (By
convention, we use the word “statement” to refer to an expression that
is evaluated for effect, not for value).

   In such a case, it is considered more clear to express these
intentions with these special forms, ‘when’ and ‘unless’.  As an added
bonus, these forms accept multiple statements to evaluate, which are
implicitly wrapped in a ‘begin’.

 -- Scheme Syntax: when test statement1 statement2 ...
 -- Scheme Syntax: unless test statement1 statement2 ...
     The actual definitions of these forms are in many ways their most
     clear documentation:

          (define-syntax-rule (when test stmt stmt* ...)
            (if test (begin stmt stmt* ...)))

          (define-syntax-rule (unless condition stmt stmt* ...)
            (if (not test) (begin stmt stmt* ...)))

     That is to say, ‘when’ evaluates its consequent statements in order
     if TEST is true.  ‘unless’ is the opposite: it evaluates the
     statements if TEST is false.

 -- syntax: cond clause1 clause2 ...
     Each ‘cond’-clause must look like this:

          (TEST EXPRESSION ...)

     where TEST and EXPRESSION are arbitrary expressions, or like this

          (TEST => EXPRESSION)

     where EXPRESSION must evaluate to a procedure.

     The TESTs of the clauses are evaluated in order and as soon as one
     of them evaluates to a true value, the corresponding EXPRESSIONs
     are evaluated in order and the last value is returned as the value
     of the ‘cond’-expression.  For the ‘=>’ clause type, EXPRESSION is
     evaluated and the resulting procedure is applied to the value of
     TEST.  The result of this procedure application is then the result
     of the ‘cond’-expression.

     One additional ‘cond’-clause is available as an extension to
     standard Scheme:

          (TEST GUARD => EXPRESSION)

     where GUARD and EXPRESSION must evaluate to procedures.  For this
     clause type, TEST may return multiple values, and ‘cond’ ignores
     its boolean state; instead, ‘cond’ evaluates GUARD and applies the
     resulting procedure to the value(s) of TEST, as if GUARD were the
     CONSUMER argument of ‘call-with-values’.  If the result of that
     procedure call is a true value, it evaluates EXPRESSION and applies
     the resulting procedure to the value(s) of TEST, in the same manner
     as the GUARD was called.

     The TEST of the last CLAUSE may be the symbol ‘else’.  Then, if
     none of the preceding TESTs is true, the EXPRESSIONs following the
     ‘else’ are evaluated to produce the result of the
     ‘cond’-expression.

 -- syntax: case key clause1 clause2 ...
     KEY may be any expression, and the CLAUSEs must have the form

          ((DATUM1 ...) EXPR1 EXPR2 ...)

     or

          ((DATUM1 ...) => EXPRESSION)

     and the last CLAUSE may have the form

          (else EXPR1 EXPR2 ...)

     or

          (else => EXPRESSION)

     All DATUMs must be distinct.  First, KEY is evaluated.  The result
     of this evaluation is compared against all DATUM values using
     ‘eqv?’.  When this comparison succeeds, the expression(s) following
     the DATUM are evaluated from left to right, returning the value of
     the last expression as the result of the ‘case’ expression.

     If the KEY matches no DATUM and there is an ‘else’-clause, the
     expressions following the ‘else’ are evaluated.  If there is no
     such clause, the result of the expression is unspecified.

     For the ‘=>’ clause types, EXPRESSION is evaluated and the
     resulting procedure is applied to the value of KEY.  The result of
     this procedure application is then the result of the
     ‘case’-expression.

File: guile.info,  Node: and or,  Next: while do,  Prev: Conditionals,  Up: Control Mechanisms

6.13.3 Conditional Evaluation of a Sequence of Expressions
----------------------------------------------------------

‘and’ and ‘or’ evaluate all their arguments in order, similar to
‘begin’, but evaluation stops as soon as one of the expressions
evaluates to false or true, respectively.

 -- syntax: and expr ...
     Evaluate the EXPRs from left to right and stop evaluation as soon
     as one expression evaluates to ‘#f’; the remaining expressions are
     not evaluated.  The value of the last evaluated expression is
     returned.  If no expression evaluates to ‘#f’, the value of the
     last expression is returned.

     If used without expressions, ‘#t’ is returned.

 -- syntax: or expr ...
     Evaluate the EXPRs from left to right and stop evaluation as soon
     as one expression evaluates to a true value (that is, a value
     different from ‘#f’); the remaining expressions are not evaluated.
     The value of the last evaluated expression is returned.  If all
     expressions evaluate to ‘#f’, ‘#f’ is returned.

     If used without expressions, ‘#f’ is returned.

File: guile.info,  Node: while do,  Next: Prompts,  Prev: and or,  Up: Control Mechanisms

6.13.4 Iteration mechanisms
---------------------------

Scheme has only few iteration mechanisms, mainly because iteration in
Scheme programs is normally expressed using recursion.  Nevertheless,
R5RS defines a construct for programming loops, calling ‘do’.  In
addition, Guile has an explicit looping syntax called ‘while’.

 -- syntax: do ((variable init [step]) ...) (test expr ...) body ...
     Bind VARIABLEs and evaluate BODY until TEST is true.  The return
     value is the last EXPR after TEST, if given.  A simple example will
     illustrate the basic form,

          (do ((i 1 (1+ i)))
              ((> i 4))
            (display i))
          ⊣ 1234

     Or with two variables and a final return value,

          (do ((i 1 (1+ i))
               (p 3 (* 3 p)))
              ((> i 4)
               p)
            (format #t "3**~s is ~s\n" i p))
          ⊣
          3**1 is 3
          3**2 is 9
          3**3 is 27
          3**4 is 81
          ⇒
          789

     The VARIABLE bindings are established like a ‘let’, in that the
     expressions are all evaluated and then all bindings made.  When
     iterating, the optional STEP expressions are evaluated with the
     previous bindings in scope, then new bindings all made.

     The TEST expression is a termination condition.  Looping stops when
     the TEST is true.  It’s evaluated before running the BODY each
     time, so if it’s true the first time then BODY is not run at all.

     The optional EXPRs after the TEST are evaluated at the end of
     looping, with the final VARIABLE bindings available.  The last EXPR
     gives the return value, or if there are no EXPRs the return value
     is unspecified.

     Each iteration establishes bindings to fresh locations for the
     VARIABLEs, like a new ‘let’ for each iteration.  This is done for
     VARIABLEs without STEP expressions too.  The following illustrates
     this, showing how a new ‘i’ is captured by the ‘lambda’ in each
     iteration (*note The Concept of Closure: About Closure.).

          (define lst '())
          (do ((i 1 (1+ i)))
              ((> i 4))
            (set! lst (cons (lambda () i) lst)))
          (map (lambda (proc) (proc)) lst)
          ⇒
          (4 3 2 1)

 -- syntax: while cond body ...
     Run a loop executing the BODY forms while COND is true.  COND is
     tested at the start of each iteration, so if it’s ‘#f’ the first
     time then BODY is not executed at all.

     Within ‘while’, two extra bindings are provided, they can be used
     from both COND and BODY.

      -- Scheme Procedure: break break-arg ...
          Break out of the ‘while’ form.

      -- Scheme Procedure: continue
          Abandon the current iteration, go back to the start and test
          COND again, etc.

     If the loop terminates normally, by the COND evaluating to ‘#f’,
     then the ‘while’ expression as a whole evaluates to ‘#f’.  If it
     terminates by a call to ‘break’ with some number of arguments,
     those arguments are returned from the ‘while’ expression, as
     multiple values.  Otherwise if it terminates by a call to ‘break’
     with no arguments, then return value is ‘#t’.

          (while #f (error "not reached")) ⇒ #f
          (while #t (break)) ⇒ #t
          (while #t (break 1 2 3)) ⇒ 1 2 3

     Each ‘while’ form gets its own ‘break’ and ‘continue’ procedures,
     operating on that ‘while’.  This means when loops are nested the
     outer ‘break’ can be used to escape all the way out.  For example,

          (while (test1)
            (let ((outer-break break))
              (while (test2)
                (if (something)
                  (outer-break #f))
                ...)))

     Note that each ‘break’ and ‘continue’ procedure can only be used
     within the dynamic extent of its ‘while’.  Outside the ‘while’
     their behaviour is unspecified.

   Another very common way of expressing iteration in Scheme programs is
the use of the so-called “named let”.

   Named let is a variant of ‘let’ which creates a procedure and calls
it in one step.  Because of the newly created procedure, named let is
more powerful than ‘do’–it can be used for iteration, but also for
arbitrary recursion.

 -- syntax: let variable bindings body
     For the definition of BINDINGS see the documentation about ‘let’
     (*note Local Bindings::).

     Named ‘let’ works as follows:

        • A new procedure which accepts as many arguments as are in
          BINDINGS is created and bound locally (using ‘let’) to
          VARIABLE.  The new procedure’s formal argument names are the
          name of the VARIABLES.

        • The BODY expressions are inserted into the newly created
          procedure.

        • The procedure is called with the INIT expressions as the
          formal arguments.

     The next example implements a loop which iterates (by recursion)
     1000 times.

          (let lp ((x 1000))
            (if (positive? x)
                (lp (- x 1))
                x))
          ⇒
          0

File: guile.info,  Node: Prompts,  Next: Continuations,  Prev: while do,  Up: Control Mechanisms

6.13.5 Prompts
--------------

Prompts are control-flow barriers between different parts of a program.
In the same way that a user sees a shell prompt (e.g., the Bash prompt)
as a barrier between the operating system and her programs, Scheme
prompts allow the Scheme programmer to treat parts of programs as if
they were running in different operating systems.

   We use this roundabout explanation because, unless you’re a
functional programming junkie, you probably haven’t heard the term,
“delimited, composable continuation”.  That’s OK; it’s a relatively
recent topic, but a very useful one to know about.

* Menu:

* Prompt Primitives::           Call-with-prompt and abort-to-prompt.
* Shift and Reset::             The zoo of delimited control operators.

File: guile.info,  Node: Prompt Primitives,  Next: Shift and Reset,  Up: Prompts

6.13.5.1 Prompt Primitives
..........................

Guile’s primitive delimited control operators are ‘call-with-prompt’ and
‘abort-to-prompt’.

 -- Scheme Procedure: call-with-prompt tag thunk handler
     Set up a prompt, and call THUNK within that prompt.

     During the dynamic extent of the call to THUNK, a prompt named TAG
     will be present in the dynamic context, such that if a user calls
     ‘abort-to-prompt’ (see below) with that tag, control rewinds back
     to the prompt, and the HANDLER is run.

     HANDLER must be a procedure.  The first argument to HANDLER will be
     the state of the computation begun when THUNK was called, and
     ending with the call to ‘abort-to-prompt’.  The remaining arguments
     to HANDLER are those passed to ‘abort-to-prompt’.

 -- Scheme Procedure: make-prompt-tag [stem]
     Make a new prompt tag.  Currently prompt tags are generated
     symbols.  This may change in some future Guile version.

 -- Scheme Procedure: default-prompt-tag
     Return the default prompt tag.  Having a distinguished default
     prompt tag allows some useful prompt and abort idioms, discussed in
     the next section.

 -- Scheme Procedure: abort-to-prompt tag val1 val2 ...
     Unwind the dynamic and control context to the nearest prompt named
     TAG, also passing the given values.

   C programmers may recognize ‘call-with-prompt’ and ‘abort-to-prompt’
as a fancy kind of ‘setjmp’ and ‘longjmp’, respectively.  Prompts are
indeed quite useful as non-local escape mechanisms.  Guile’s ‘catch’ and
‘throw’ are implemented in terms of prompts.  Prompts are more
convenient than ‘longjmp’, in that one has the opportunity to pass
multiple values to the jump target.

   Also unlike ‘longjmp’, the prompt handler is given the full state of
the process that was aborted, as the first argument to the prompt’s
handler.  That state is the “continuation” of the computation wrapped by
the prompt.  It is a “delimited continuation”, because it is not the
whole continuation of the program; rather, just the computation
initiated by the call to ‘call-with-prompt’.

   The continuation is a procedure, and may be reinstated simply by
invoking it, with any number of values.  Here’s where things get
interesting, and complicated as well.  Besides being described as
delimited, continuations reified by prompts are also “composable”,
because invoking a prompt-saved continuation composes that continuation
with the current one.

   Imagine you have saved a continuation via call-with-prompt:

     (define cont
       (call-with-prompt
        ;; tag
        'foo
        ;; thunk
        (lambda ()
          (+ 34 (abort-to-prompt 'foo)))
        ;; handler
        (lambda (k) k)))

   The resulting continuation is the addition of 34.  It’s as if you had
written:

     (define cont
       (lambda (x)
         (+ 34 x)))

   So, if we call ‘cont’ with one numeric value, we get that number,
incremented by 34:

     (cont 8)
     ⇒ 42
     (* 2 (cont 8))
     ⇒ 84

   The last example illustrates what we mean when we say, "composes with
the current continuation".  We mean that there is a current continuation
– some remaining things to compute, like ‘(lambda (x) (* x 2))’ – and
that calling the saved continuation doesn’t wipe out the current
continuation, it composes the saved continuation with the current one.

   We’re belaboring the point here because traditional Scheme
continuations, as discussed in the next section, aren’t composable, and
are actually less expressive than continuations captured by prompts.
But there’s a place for them both.

   Before moving on, we should mention that if the handler of a prompt
is a ‘lambda’ expression, and the first argument isn’t referenced, an
abort to that prompt will not cause a continuation to be reified.  This
can be an important efficiency consideration to keep in mind.

   One example where this optimization matters is “escape
continuations”.  Escape continuations are delimited continuations whose
only use is to make a non-local exit—i.e., to escape from the current
continuation.  A common use of escape continuations is when throwing an
exception (*note Exceptions::).

   The constructs below are syntactic sugar atop prompts to simplify the
use of escape continuations.

 -- Scheme Procedure: call-with-escape-continuation proc
 -- Scheme Procedure: call/ec proc
     Call PROC with an escape continuation.

     In the example below, the RETURN continuation is used to escape the
     continuation of the call to ‘fold’.

          (use-modules (ice-9 control)
                       (srfi srfi-1))

          (define (prefix x lst)
            ;; Return all the elements before the first occurrence
            ;; of X in LST.
            (call/ec
              (lambda (return)
                (fold (lambda (element prefix)
                        (if (equal? element x)
                            (return (reverse prefix))  ; escape `fold'
                            (cons element prefix)))
                      '()
                      lst))))

          (prefix 'a '(0 1 2 a 3 4 5))
          ⇒ (0 1 2)

 -- Scheme Syntax: let-escape-continuation k body ...
 -- Scheme Syntax: let/ec k body ...
     Bind K within BODY to an escape continuation.

     This is equivalent to ‘(call/ec (lambda (K) BODY ...))’.

File: guile.info,  Node: Shift and Reset,  Prev: Prompt Primitives,  Up: Prompts

6.13.5.2 Shift, Reset, and All That
...................................

There is a whole zoo of delimited control operators, and as it does not
seem to be a bounded set, Guile implements support for them in a
separate module:

     (use-modules (ice-9 control))

   Firstly, we have a helpful abbreviation for the ‘call-with-prompt’
operator.

 -- Scheme Syntax: % expr
 -- Scheme Syntax: % expr handler
 -- Scheme Syntax: % tag expr handler
     Evaluate EXPR in a prompt, optionally specifying a tag and a
     handler.  If no tag is given, the default prompt tag is used.

     If no handler is given, a default handler is installed.  The
     default handler accepts a procedure of one argument, which will
     called on the captured continuation, within a prompt.

     Sometimes it’s easier just to show code, as in this case:

          (define (default-prompt-handler k proc)
            (% (default-prompt-tag)
               (proc k)
               default-prompt-handler))

     The ‘%’ symbol is chosen because it looks like a prompt.

   Likewise there is an abbreviation for ‘abort-to-prompt’, which
assumes the default prompt tag:

 -- Scheme Procedure: abort val1 val2 ...
     Abort to the default prompt tag, passing VAL1 VAL2 ... to the
     handler.

   As mentioned before, ‘(ice-9 control)’ also provides other delimited
control operators.  This section is a bit technical, and first-time
users of delimited continuations should probably come back to it after
some practice with ‘%’.

   Still here?  So, when one implements a delimited control operator
like ‘call-with-prompt’, one needs to make two decisions.  Firstly, does
the handler run within or outside the prompt?  Having the handler run
within the prompt allows an abort inside the handler to return to the
same prompt handler, which is often useful.  However it prevents tail
calls from the handler, so it is less general.

   Similarly, does invoking a captured continuation reinstate a prompt?
Again we have the tradeoff of convenience versus proper tail calls.

   These decisions are captured in the Felleisen “F” operator.  If
neither the continuations nor the handlers implicitly add a prompt, the
operator is known as “–F–”.  This is the case for Guile’s
‘call-with-prompt’ and ‘abort-to-prompt’.

   If both continuation and handler implicitly add prompts, then the
operator is “+F+”.  ‘shift’ and ‘reset’ are such operators.

 -- Scheme Syntax: reset body1 body2 ...
     Establish a prompt, and evaluate BODY1 BODY2 ... within that
     prompt.

     The prompt handler is designed to work with ‘shift’, described
     below.

 -- Scheme Syntax: shift cont body1 body2 ...
     Abort to the nearest ‘reset’, and evaluate BODY1 BODY2 ... in a
     context in which the captured continuation is bound to CONT.

     As mentioned above, taken together, the BODY1 BODY2 ... expressions
     and the invocations of CONT implicitly establish a prompt.

   Interested readers are invited to explore Oleg Kiselyov’s wonderful
web site at <http://okmij.org/ftp/>, for more information on these
operators.

File: guile.info,  Node: Continuations,  Next: Multiple Values,  Prev: Prompts,  Up: Control Mechanisms

6.13.6 Continuations
--------------------

A “continuation” is the code that will execute when a given function or
expression returns.  For example, consider

     (define (foo)
       (display "hello\n")
       (display (bar)) (newline)
       (exit))

   The continuation from the call to ‘bar’ comprises a ‘display’ of the
value returned, a ‘newline’ and an ‘exit’.  This can be expressed as a
function of one argument.

     (lambda (r)
       (display r) (newline)
       (exit))

   In Scheme, continuations are represented as special procedures just
like this.  The special property is that when a continuation is called
it abandons the current program location and jumps directly to that
represented by the continuation.

   A continuation is like a dynamic label, capturing at run-time a point
in program execution, including all the nested calls that have lead to
it (or rather the code that will execute when those calls return).

   Continuations are created with the following functions.

 -- Scheme Procedure: call-with-current-continuation proc
 -- Scheme Procedure: call/cc proc
     Capture the current continuation and call ‘(PROC CONT)’ with it.
     The return value is the value returned by PROC, or when ‘(CONT
     VALUE)’ is later invoked, the return is the VALUE passed.

     Normally CONT should be called with one argument, but when the
     location resumed is expecting multiple values (*note Multiple
     Values::) then they should be passed as multiple arguments, for
     instance ‘(CONT X Y Z)’.

     CONT may only be used from the same side of a continuation barrier
     as it was created (*note Continuation Barriers::), and in a
     multi-threaded program only from the thread in which it was
     created.

     The call to PROC is not part of the continuation captured, it runs
     only when the continuation is created.  Often a program will want
     to store CONT somewhere for later use; this can be done in PROC.

     The ‘call’ in the name ‘call-with-current-continuation’ refers to
     the way a call to PROC gives the newly created continuation.  It’s
     not related to the way a call is used later to invoke that
     continuation.

     ‘call/cc’ is an alias for ‘call-with-current-continuation’.  This
     is in common use since the latter is rather long.


Here is a simple example,

     (define kont #f)
     (format #t "the return is ~a\n"
             (call/cc (lambda (k)
                        (set! kont k)
                        1)))
     ⇒ the return is 1

     (kont 2)
     ⇒ the return is 2

   ‘call/cc’ captures a continuation in which the value returned is
going to be displayed by ‘format’.  The ‘lambda’ stores this in ‘kont’
and gives an initial return ‘1’ which is displayed.  The later
invocation of ‘kont’ resumes the captured point, but this time returning
‘2’, which is displayed.

   When Guile is run interactively, a call to ‘format’ like this has an
implicit return back to the read-eval-print loop.  ‘call/cc’ captures
that like any other return, which is why interactively ‘kont’ will come
back to read more input.


   C programmers may note that ‘call/cc’ is like ‘setjmp’ in the way it
records at runtime a point in program execution.  A call to a
continuation is like a ‘longjmp’ in that it abandons the present
location and goes to the recorded one.  Like ‘longjmp’, the value passed
to the continuation is the value returned by ‘call/cc’ on resuming
there.  However ‘longjmp’ can only go up the program stack, but the
continuation mechanism can go anywhere.

   When a continuation is invoked, ‘call/cc’ and subsequent code
effectively “returns” a second time.  It can be confusing to imagine a
function returning more times than it was called.  It may help instead
to think of it being stealthily re-entered and then program flow going
on as normal.

   ‘dynamic-wind’ (*note Dynamic Wind::) can be used to ensure setup and
cleanup code is run when a program locus is resumed or abandoned through
the continuation mechanism.


   Continuations are a powerful mechanism, and can be used to implement
almost any sort of control structure, such as loops, coroutines, or
exception handlers.

   However the implementation of continuations in Guile is not as
efficient as one might hope, because Guile is designed to cooperate with
programs written in other languages, such as C, which do not know about
continuations.  Basically continuations are captured by a block copy of
the stack, and resumed by copying back.

   For this reason, continuations captured by ‘call/cc’ should be used
only when there is no other simple way to achieve the desired result, or
when the elegance of the continuation mechanism outweighs the need for
performance.

   Escapes upwards from loops or nested functions are generally best
handled with prompts (*note Prompts::).  Coroutines can be efficiently
implemented with cooperating threads (a thread holds a full program
stack but doesn’t copy it around the way continuations do).

File: guile.info,  Node: Multiple Values,  Next: Exceptions,  Prev: Continuations,  Up: Control Mechanisms

6.13.7 Returning and Accepting Multiple Values
----------------------------------------------

Scheme allows a procedure to return more than one value to its caller.
This is quite different to other languages which only allow single-value
returns.  Returning multiple values is different from returning a list
(or pair or vector) of values to the caller, because conceptually not
_one_ compound object is returned, but several distinct values.

   The primitive procedures for handling multiple values are ‘values’
and ‘call-with-values’.  ‘values’ is used for returning multiple values
from a procedure.  This is done by placing a call to ‘values’ with zero
or more arguments in tail position in a procedure body.
‘call-with-values’ combines a procedure returning multiple values with a
procedure which accepts these values as parameters.

 -- Scheme Procedure: values arg ...
 -- C Function: scm_values (args)
     Delivers all of its arguments to its continuation.  Except for
     continuations created by the ‘call-with-values’ procedure, all
     continuations take exactly one value.  The effect of passing no
     value or more than one value to continuations that were not created
     by ‘call-with-values’ is unspecified.

     For ‘scm_values’, ARGS is a list of arguments and the return is a
     multiple-values object which the caller can return.  In the current
     implementation that object shares structure with ARGS, so ARGS
     should not be modified subsequently.

 -- C Function: SCM scm_c_values (SCM *base, size_t n)
     ‘scm_c_values’ is an alternative to ‘scm_values’.  It creates a new
     values object, and copies into it the N values starting from BASE.

     Currently this creates a list and passes it to ‘scm_values’, but we
     expect that in the future we will be able to use a more efficient
     representation.

 -- C Function: size_t scm_c_nvalues (SCM obj)
     If OBJ is a multiple-values object, returns the number of values it
     contains.  Otherwise returns 1.

 -- C Function: SCM scm_c_value_ref (SCM obj, size_t idx)
     Returns the value at the position specified by IDX in OBJ.  Note
     that OBJ will ordinarily be a multiple-values object, but it need
     not be.  Any other object represents a single value (itself), and
     is handled appropriately.

 -- Scheme Procedure: call-with-values producer consumer
     Calls its PRODUCER argument with no values and a continuation that,
     when passed some values, calls the CONSUMER procedure with those
     values as arguments.  The continuation for the call to CONSUMER is
     the continuation of the call to ‘call-with-values’.

          (call-with-values (lambda () (values 4 5))
                            (lambda (a b) b))
          ⇒ 5

          (call-with-values * -)
          ⇒ -1

   In addition to the fundamental procedures described above, Guile has
a module which exports a syntax called ‘receive’, which is much more
convenient.  This is in the ‘(ice-9 receive)’ and is the same as
specified by SRFI-8 (*note SRFI-8::).

     (use-modules (ice-9 receive))

 -- library syntax: receive formals expr body ...
     Evaluate the expression EXPR, and bind the result values (zero or
     more) to the formal arguments in FORMALS.  FORMALS is a list of
     symbols, like the argument list in a ‘lambda’ (*note Lambda::).
     After binding the variables, the expressions in BODY ... are
     evaluated in order, the return value is the result from the last
     expression.

     For example getting results from ‘partition’ in SRFI-1 (*note
     SRFI-1::),

          (receive (odds evens)
              (partition odd? '(7 4 2 8 3))
            (display odds)
            (display " and ")
            (display evens))
          ⊣ (7 3) and (4 2 8)

File: guile.info,  Node: Exceptions,  Next: Error Reporting,  Prev: Multiple Values,  Up: Control Mechanisms

6.13.8 Exceptions
-----------------

A common requirement in applications is to want to jump “non-locally”
from the depths of a computation back to, say, the application’s main
processing loop.  Usually, the place that is the target of the jump is
somewhere in the calling stack of procedures that called the procedure
that wants to jump back.  For example, typical logic for a key press
driven application might look something like this:

     main-loop:
       read the next key press and call dispatch-key

     dispatch-key:
       lookup the key in a keymap and call an appropriate procedure,
       say find-file

     find-file:
       interactively read the required file name, then call
       find-specified-file

     find-specified-file:
       check whether file exists; if not, jump back to main-loop
       ...

   The jump back to ‘main-loop’ could be achieved by returning through
the stack one procedure at a time, using the return value of each
procedure to indicate the error condition, but Guile (like most modern
programming languages) provides an additional mechanism called
“exception handling” that can be used to implement such jumps much more
conveniently.

* Menu:

* Exception Terminology::       Different ways to say the same thing.
* Catch::                       Setting up to catch exceptions.
* Throw Handlers::              Handling exceptions before unwinding the stack.
* Throw::                       Throwing an exception.
* Exception Implementation::    How Guile implements exceptions.

File: guile.info,  Node: Exception Terminology,  Next: Catch,  Up: Exceptions

6.13.8.1 Exception Terminology
..............................

There are several variations on the terminology for dealing with
non-local jumps.  It is useful to be aware of them, and to realize that
they all refer to the same basic mechanism.

   • Actually making a non-local jump may be called “raising an
     exception”, “raising a signal”, “throwing an exception” or “doing a
     long jump”.  When the jump indicates an error condition, people may
     talk about “signalling”, “raising” or “throwing” “an error”.

   • Handling the jump at its target may be referred to as “catching” or
     “handling” the “exception”, “signal” or, where an error condition
     is involved, “error”.

   Where “signal” and “signalling” are used, special care is needed to
avoid the risk of confusion with POSIX signals.

   This manual prefers to speak of throwing and catching exceptions,
since this terminology matches the corresponding Guile primitives.

   The exception mechanism described in this section has connections
with “delimited continuations” (*note Prompts::).  In particular,
throwing an exception is akin to invoking an “escape continuation”
(*note ‘call/ec’: Prompt Primitives.).

File: guile.info,  Node: Catch,  Next: Throw Handlers,  Prev: Exception Terminology,  Up: Exceptions

6.13.8.2 Catching Exceptions
............................

‘catch’ is used to set up a target for a possible non-local jump.  The
arguments of a ‘catch’ expression are a “key”, which restricts the set
of exceptions to which this ‘catch’ applies, a thunk that specifies the
code to execute and one or two “handler” procedures that say what to do
if an exception is thrown while executing the code.  If the execution
thunk executes “normally”, which means without throwing any exceptions,
the handler procedures are not called at all.

   When an exception is thrown using the ‘throw’ function, the first
argument of the ‘throw’ is a symbol that indicates the type of the
exception.  For example, Guile throws an exception using the symbol
‘numerical-overflow’ to indicate numerical overflow errors such as
division by zero:

     (/ 1 0)
     ⇒
     ABORT: (numerical-overflow)

   The KEY argument in a ‘catch’ expression corresponds to this symbol.
KEY may be a specific symbol, such as ‘numerical-overflow’, in which
case the ‘catch’ applies specifically to exceptions of that type; or it
may be ‘#t’, which means that the ‘catch’ applies to all exceptions,
irrespective of their type.

   The second argument of a ‘catch’ expression should be a thunk (i.e. a
procedure that accepts no arguments) that specifies the normal case
code.  The ‘catch’ is active for the execution of this thunk, including
any code called directly or indirectly by the thunk’s body.  Evaluation
of the ‘catch’ expression activates the catch and then calls this thunk.

   The third argument of a ‘catch’ expression is a handler procedure.
If an exception is thrown, this procedure is called with exactly the
arguments specified by the ‘throw’.  Therefore, the handler procedure
must be designed to accept a number of arguments that corresponds to the
number of arguments in all ‘throw’ expressions that can be caught by
this ‘catch’.

   The fourth, optional argument of a ‘catch’ expression is another
handler procedure, called the “pre-unwind” handler.  It differs from the
third argument in that if an exception is thrown, it is called, _before_
the third argument handler, in exactly the dynamic context of the
‘throw’ expression that threw the exception.  This means that it is
useful for capturing or displaying the stack at the point of the
‘throw’, or for examining other aspects of the dynamic context, such as
fluid values, before the context is unwound back to that of the
prevailing ‘catch’.

 -- Scheme Procedure: catch key thunk handler [pre-unwind-handler]
 -- C Function: scm_catch_with_pre_unwind_handler (key, thunk, handler,
          pre_unwind_handler)
 -- C Function: scm_catch (key, thunk, handler)
     Invoke THUNK in the dynamic context of HANDLER for exceptions
     matching KEY.  If thunk throws to the symbol KEY, then HANDLER is
     invoked this way:
          (handler key args ...)

     KEY is a symbol or ‘#t’.

     THUNK takes no arguments.  If THUNK returns normally, that is the
     return value of ‘catch’.

     Handler is invoked outside the scope of its own ‘catch’.  If
     HANDLER again throws to the same key, a new handler from further up
     the call chain is invoked.

     If the key is ‘#t’, then a throw to _any_ symbol will match this
     call to ‘catch’.

     If a PRE-UNWIND-HANDLER is given and THUNK throws an exception that
     matches KEY, Guile calls the PRE-UNWIND-HANDLER before unwinding
     the dynamic state and invoking the main HANDLER.
     PRE-UNWIND-HANDLER should be a procedure with the same signature as
     HANDLER, that is ‘(lambda (key . args))’.  It is typically used to
     save the stack at the point where the exception occurred, but can
     also query other parts of the dynamic state at that point, such as
     fluid values.

     A PRE-UNWIND-HANDLER can exit either normally or non-locally.  If
     it exits normally, Guile unwinds the stack and dynamic context and
     then calls the normal (third argument) handler.  If it exits
     non-locally, that exit determines the continuation.

   If a handler procedure needs to match a variety of ‘throw’
expressions with varying numbers of arguments, you should write it like
this:

     (lambda (key . args)
       ...)

The KEY argument is guaranteed always to be present, because a ‘throw’
without a KEY is not valid.  The number and interpretation of the ARGS
varies from one type of exception to another, but should be specified by
the documentation for each exception type.

   Note that, once the normal (post-unwind) handler procedure is
invoked, the catch that led to the handler procedure being called is no
longer active.  Therefore, if the handler procedure itself throws an
exception, that exception can only be caught by another active catch
higher up the call stack, if there is one.


 -- C Function: SCM scm_c_catch (SCM tag, scm_t_catch_body body, void
          *body_data, scm_t_catch_handler handler, void *handler_data,
          scm_t_catch_handler pre_unwind_handler, void
          *pre_unwind_handler_data)
 -- C Function: SCM scm_internal_catch (SCM tag, scm_t_catch_body body,
          void *body_data, scm_t_catch_handler handler, void
          *handler_data)
     The above ‘scm_catch_with_pre_unwind_handler’ and ‘scm_catch’ take
     Scheme procedures as body and handler arguments.  ‘scm_c_catch’ and
     ‘scm_internal_catch’ are equivalents taking C functions.

     BODY is called as ‘BODY (BODY_DATA)’ with a catch on exceptions of
     the given TAG type.  If an exception is caught, PRE_UNWIND_HANDLER
     and HANDLER are called as ‘HANDLER (HANDLER_DATA, KEY, ARGS)’.  KEY
     and ARGS are the ‘SCM’ key and argument list from the ‘throw’.

     BODY and HANDLER should have the following prototypes.
     ‘scm_t_catch_body’ and ‘scm_t_catch_handler’ are pointer typedefs
     for these.

          SCM body (void *data);
          SCM handler (void *data, SCM key, SCM args);

     The BODY_DATA and HANDLER_DATA parameters are passed to the
     respective calls so an application can communicate extra
     information to those functions.

     If the data consists of an ‘SCM’ object, care should be taken that
     it isn’t garbage collected while still required.  If the ‘SCM’ is a
     local C variable, one way to protect it is to pass a pointer to
     that variable as the data parameter, since the C compiler will then
     know the value must be held on the stack.  Another way is to use
     ‘scm_remember_upto_here_1’ (*note Remembering During Operations::).

File: guile.info,  Node: Throw Handlers,  Next: Throw,  Prev: Catch,  Up: Exceptions

6.13.8.3 Throw Handlers
.......................

It’s sometimes useful to be able to intercept an exception that is being
thrown before the stack is unwound.  This could be to clean up some
related state, to print a backtrace, or to pass information about the
exception to a debugger, for example.  The ‘with-throw-handler’
procedure provides a way to do this.

 -- Scheme Procedure: with-throw-handler key thunk handler
 -- C Function: scm_with_throw_handler (key, thunk, handler)
     Add HANDLER to the dynamic context as a throw handler for key KEY,
     then invoke THUNK.

     This behaves exactly like ‘catch’, except that it does not unwind
     the stack before invoking HANDLER.  If the HANDLER procedure
     returns normally, Guile rethrows the same exception again to the
     next innermost catch or throw handler.  HANDLER may exit
     nonlocally, of course, via an explicit throw or via invoking a
     continuation.

   Typically HANDLER is used to display a backtrace of the stack at the
point where the corresponding ‘throw’ occurred, or to save off this
information for possible display later.

   Not unwinding the stack means that throwing an exception that is
handled via a throw handler is equivalent to calling the throw handler
handler inline instead of each ‘throw’, and then omitting the
surrounding ‘with-throw-handler’.  In other words,

     (with-throw-handler 'key
       (lambda () ... (throw 'key args ...) ...)
       handler)

is mostly equivalent to

     ((lambda () ... (handler 'key args ...) ...))

   In particular, the dynamic context when HANDLER is invoked is that of
the site where ‘throw’ is called.  The examples are not quite
equivalent, because the body of a ‘with-throw-handler’ is not in tail
position with respect to the ‘with-throw-handler’, and if HANDLER exits
normally, Guile arranges to rethrow the error, but hopefully the
intention is clear.  (For an introduction to what is meant by dynamic
context, *Note Dynamic Wind::.)

 -- C Function: SCM scm_c_with_throw_handler (SCM tag, scm_t_catch_body
          body, void *body_data, scm_t_catch_handler handler, void
          *handler_data, int lazy_catch_p)
     The above ‘scm_with_throw_handler’ takes Scheme procedures as body
     (thunk) and handler arguments.  ‘scm_c_with_throw_handler’ is an
     equivalent taking C functions.  See ‘scm_c_catch’ (*note Catch::)
     for a description of the parameters, the behaviour however of
     course follows ‘with-throw-handler’.

   If THUNK throws an exception, Guile handles that exception by
invoking the innermost ‘catch’ or throw handler whose key matches that
of the exception.  When the innermost thing is a throw handler, Guile
calls the specified handler procedure using ‘(apply HANDLER key args)’.
The handler procedure may either return normally or exit non-locally.
If it returns normally, Guile passes the exception on to the next
innermost ‘catch’ or throw handler.  If it exits non-locally, that exit
determines the continuation.

   The behaviour of a throw handler is very similar to that of a ‘catch’
expression’s optional pre-unwind handler.  In particular, a throw
handler’s handler procedure is invoked in the exact dynamic context of
the ‘throw’ expression, just as a pre-unwind handler is.
‘with-throw-handler’ may be seen as a half-‘catch’: it does everything
that a ‘catch’ would do until the point where ‘catch’ would start
unwinding the stack and dynamic context, but then it rethrows to the
next innermost ‘catch’ or throw handler instead.

   Note also that since the dynamic context is not unwound, if a
‘with-throw-handler’ handler throws to a key that does not match the
‘with-throw-handler’ expression’s KEY, the new throw may be handled by a
‘catch’ or throw handler that is _closer_ to the throw than the first
‘with-throw-handler’.

   Here is an example to illustrate this behavior:

     (catch 'a
       (lambda ()
         (with-throw-handler 'b
           (lambda ()
             (catch 'a
               (lambda ()
                 (throw 'b))
               inner-handler))
           (lambda (key . args)
             (throw 'a))))
       outer-handler)

This code will call ‘inner-handler’ and then continue with the
continuation of the inner ‘catch’.

File: guile.info,  Node: Throw,  Next: Exception Implementation,  Prev: Throw Handlers,  Up: Exceptions

6.13.8.4 Throwing Exceptions
............................

The ‘throw’ primitive is used to throw an exception.  One argument, the
KEY, is mandatory, and must be a symbol; it indicates the type of
exception that is being thrown.  Following the KEY, ‘throw’ accepts any
number of additional arguments, whose meaning depends on the exception
type.  The documentation for each possible type of exception should
specify the additional arguments that are expected for that kind of
exception.

 -- Scheme Procedure: throw key arg ...
 -- C Function: scm_throw (key, args)
     Invoke the catch form matching KEY, passing ARG ... to the HANDLER.

     KEY is a symbol.  It will match catches of the same symbol or of
     ‘#t’.

     If there is no handler at all, Guile prints an error and then
     exits.

   When an exception is thrown, it will be caught by the innermost
‘catch’ or throw handler that applies to the type of the thrown
exception; in other words, whose KEY is either ‘#t’ or the same symbol
as that used in the ‘throw’ expression.  Once Guile has identified the
appropriate ‘catch’ or throw handler, it handles the exception by
applying the relevant handler procedure(s) to the arguments of the
‘throw’.

   If there is no appropriate ‘catch’ or throw handler for a thrown
exception, Guile prints an error to the current error port indicating an
uncaught exception, and then exits.  In practice, it is quite difficult
to observe this behaviour, because Guile when used interactively
installs a top level ‘catch’ handler that will catch all exceptions and
print an appropriate error message _without_ exiting.  For example, this
is what happens if you try to throw an unhandled exception in the
standard Guile REPL; note that Guile’s command loop continues after the
error message:

     guile> (throw 'badex)
     <unnamed port>:3:1: In procedure gsubr-apply ...
     <unnamed port>:3:1: unhandled-exception: badex
     ABORT: (misc-error)
     guile>

   The default uncaught exception behaviour can be observed by
evaluating a ‘throw’ expression from the shell command line:

     $ guile -c "(begin (throw 'badex) (display \"here\\n\"))"
     guile: uncaught throw to badex: ()
     $

That Guile exits immediately following the uncaught exception is shown
by the absence of any output from the ‘display’ expression, because
Guile never gets to the point of evaluating that expression.

File: guile.info,  Node: Exception Implementation,  Prev: Throw,  Up: Exceptions

6.13.8.5 How Guile Implements Exceptions
........................................

It is traditional in Scheme to implement exception systems using
‘call-with-current-continuation’.  Continuations (*note Continuations::)
are such a powerful concept that any other control mechanism — including
‘catch’ and ‘throw’ — can be implemented in terms of them.

   Guile does not implement ‘catch’ and ‘throw’ like this, though.  Why
not?  Because Guile is specifically designed to be easy to integrate
with applications written in C. In a mixed Scheme/C environment, the
concept of “continuation” must logically include “what happens next” in
the C parts of the application as well as the Scheme parts, and it turns
out that the only reasonable way of implementing continuations like this
is to save and restore the complete C stack.

   So Guile’s implementation of ‘call-with-current-continuation’ is a
stack copying one.  This allows it to interact well with ordinary C
code, but means that creating and calling a continuation is slowed down
by the time that it takes to copy the C stack.

   The more targeted mechanism provided by ‘catch’ and ‘throw’ does not
need to save and restore the C stack because the ‘throw’ always jumps to
a location higher up the stack of the code that executes the ‘throw’.
Therefore Guile implements the ‘catch’ and ‘throw’ primitives
independently of ‘call-with-current-continuation’, in a way that takes
advantage of this _upwards only_ nature of exceptions.

File: guile.info,  Node: Error Reporting,  Next: Dynamic Wind,  Prev: Exceptions,  Up: Control Mechanisms

6.13.9 Procedures for Signaling Errors
--------------------------------------

Guile provides a set of convenience procedures for signaling error
conditions that are implemented on top of the exception primitives just
described.

 -- Scheme Procedure: error msg arg ...
     Raise an error with key ‘misc-error’ and a message constructed by
     displaying MSG and writing ARG ....

 -- Scheme Procedure: scm-error key subr message args data
 -- C Function: scm_error_scm (key, subr, message, args, data)
     Raise an error with key KEY.  SUBR can be a string naming the
     procedure associated with the error, or ‘#f’.  MESSAGE is the error
     message string, possibly containing ‘~S’ and ‘~A’ escapes.  When an
     error is reported, these are replaced by formatting the
     corresponding members of ARGS: ‘~A’ (was ‘%s’ in older versions of
     Guile) formats using ‘display’ and ‘~S’ (was ‘%S’) formats using
     ‘write’.  DATA is a list or ‘#f’ depending on KEY: if KEY is
     ‘system-error’ then it should be a list containing the Unix ‘errno’
     value; If KEY is ‘signal’ then it should be a list containing the
     Unix signal number; If KEY is ‘out-of-range’, ‘wrong-type-arg’, or
     ‘keyword-argument-error’, it is a list containing the bad value;
     otherwise it will usually be ‘#f’.

 -- Scheme Procedure: strerror err
 -- C Function: scm_strerror (err)
     Return the Unix error message corresponding to ERR, an integer
     ‘errno’ value.

     When ‘setlocale’ has been called (*note Locales::), the message is
     in the language and charset of ‘LC_MESSAGES’.  (This is done by the
     C library.)

 -- syntax: false-if-exception expr
     Returns the result of evaluating its argument; however if an
     exception occurs then ‘#f’ is returned instead.

File: guile.info,  Node: Dynamic Wind,  Next: Handling Errors,  Prev: Error Reporting,  Up: Control Mechanisms

6.13.10 Dynamic Wind
--------------------

For Scheme code, the fundamental procedure to react to non-local entry
and exits of dynamic contexts is ‘dynamic-wind’.  C code could use
‘scm_internal_dynamic_wind’, but since C does not allow the convenient
construction of anonymous procedures that close over lexical variables,
this will be, well, inconvenient.

   Therefore, Guile offers the functions ‘scm_dynwind_begin’ and
‘scm_dynwind_end’ to delimit a dynamic extent.  Within this dynamic
extent, which is called a “dynwind context”, you can perform various
“dynwind actions” that control what happens when the dynwind context is
entered or left.  For example, you can register a cleanup routine with
‘scm_dynwind_unwind_handler’ that is executed when the context is left.
There are several other more specialized dynwind actions as well, for
example to temporarily block the execution of asyncs or to temporarily
change the current output port.  They are described elsewhere in this
manual.

   Here is an example that shows how to prevent memory leaks.


     /* Suppose there is a function called FOO in some library that you
        would like to make available to Scheme code (or to C code that
        follows the Scheme conventions).

        FOO takes two C strings and returns a new string.  When an error has
        occurred in FOO, it returns NULL.
     */

     char *foo (char *s1, char *s2);

     /* SCM_FOO interfaces the C function FOO to the Scheme way of life.
        It takes care to free up all temporary strings in the case of
        non-local exits.
      */

     SCM
     scm_foo (SCM s1, SCM s2)
     {
       char *c_s1, *c_s2, *c_res;

       scm_dynwind_begin (0);

       c_s1 = scm_to_locale_string (s1);

       /* Call 'free (c_s1)' when the dynwind context is left.
       */
       scm_dynwind_unwind_handler (free, c_s1, SCM_F_WIND_EXPLICITLY);

       c_s2 = scm_to_locale_string (s2);

       /* Same as above, but more concisely.
       */
       scm_dynwind_free (c_s2);

       c_res = foo (c_s1, c_s2);
       if (c_res == NULL)
         scm_memory_error ("foo");

       scm_dynwind_end ();

       return scm_take_locale_string (res);
     }

 -- Scheme Procedure: dynamic-wind in_guard thunk out_guard
 -- C Function: scm_dynamic_wind (in_guard, thunk, out_guard)
     All three arguments must be 0-argument procedures.  IN_GUARD is
     called, then THUNK, then OUT_GUARD.

     If, any time during the execution of THUNK, the dynamic extent of
     the ‘dynamic-wind’ expression is escaped non-locally, OUT_GUARD is
     called.  If the dynamic extent of the dynamic-wind is re-entered,
     IN_GUARD is called.  Thus IN_GUARD and OUT_GUARD may be called any
     number of times.

          (define x 'normal-binding)
          ⇒ x
          (define a-cont
            (call-with-current-continuation
             (lambda (escape)
               (let ((old-x x))
                 (dynamic-wind
                     ;; in-guard:
                     ;;
                     (lambda () (set! x 'special-binding))

                     ;; thunk
                     ;;
                     (lambda () (display x) (newline)
                                (call-with-current-continuation escape)
                                (display x) (newline)
                                x)

                     ;; out-guard:
                     ;;
                     (lambda () (set! x old-x)))))))
          ;; Prints:
          special-binding
          ;; Evaluates to:
          ⇒ a-cont
          x
          ⇒ normal-binding
          (a-cont #f)
          ;; Prints:
          special-binding
          ;; Evaluates to:
          ⇒ a-cont  ;; the value of the (define a-cont...)
          x
          ⇒ normal-binding
          a-cont
          ⇒ special-binding

 -- C Type: scm_t_dynwind_flags
     This is an enumeration of several flags that modify the behavior of
     ‘scm_dynwind_begin’.  The flags are listed in the following table.

     ‘SCM_F_DYNWIND_REWINDABLE’
          The dynamic context is “rewindable”.  This means that it can
          be reentered non-locally (via the invocation of a
          continuation).  The default is that a dynwind context can not
          be reentered non-locally.

 -- C Function: void scm_dynwind_begin (scm_t_dynwind_flags flags)
     The function ‘scm_dynwind_begin’ starts a new dynamic context and
     makes it the ‘current’ one.

     The FLAGS argument determines the default behavior of the context.
     Normally, use 0.  This will result in a context that can not be
     reentered with a captured continuation.  When you are prepared to
     handle reentries, include ‘SCM_F_DYNWIND_REWINDABLE’ in FLAGS.

     Being prepared for reentry means that the effects of unwind
     handlers can be undone on reentry.  In the example above, we want
     to prevent a memory leak on non-local exit and thus register an
     unwind handler that frees the memory.  But once the memory is
     freed, we can not get it back on reentry.  Thus reentry can not be
     allowed.

     The consequence is that continuations become less useful when
     non-reentrant contexts are captured, but you don’t need to worry
     about that too much.

     The context is ended either implicitly when a non-local exit
     happens, or explicitly with ‘scm_dynwind_end’.  You must make sure
     that a dynwind context is indeed ended properly.  If you fail to
     call ‘scm_dynwind_end’ for each ‘scm_dynwind_begin’, the behavior
     is undefined.

 -- C Function: void scm_dynwind_end ()
     End the current dynamic context explicitly and make the previous
     one current.

 -- C Type: scm_t_wind_flags
     This is an enumeration of several flags that modify the behavior of
     ‘scm_dynwind_unwind_handler’ and ‘scm_dynwind_rewind_handler’.  The
     flags are listed in the following table.

     ‘SCM_F_WIND_EXPLICITLY’
          The registered action is also carried out when the dynwind
          context is entered or left locally.

 -- C Function: void scm_dynwind_unwind_handler (void (*func)(void *),
          void *data, scm_t_wind_flags flags)
 -- C Function: void scm_dynwind_unwind_handler_with_scm (void
          (*func)(SCM), SCM data, scm_t_wind_flags flags)
     Arranges for FUNC to be called with DATA as its arguments when the
     current context ends implicitly.  If FLAGS contains
     ‘SCM_F_WIND_EXPLICITLY’, FUNC is also called when the context ends
     explicitly with ‘scm_dynwind_end’.

     The function ‘scm_dynwind_unwind_handler_with_scm’ takes care that
     DATA is protected from garbage collection.

 -- C Function: void scm_dynwind_rewind_handler (void (*func)(void *),
          void *data, scm_t_wind_flags flags)
 -- C Function: void scm_dynwind_rewind_handler_with_scm (void
          (*func)(SCM), SCM data, scm_t_wind_flags flags)
     Arrange for FUNC to be called with DATA as its argument when the
     current context is restarted by rewinding the stack.  When FLAGS
     contains ‘SCM_F_WIND_EXPLICITLY’, FUNC is called immediately as
     well.

     The function ‘scm_dynwind_rewind_handler_with_scm’ takes care that
     DATA is protected from garbage collection.

 -- C Function: void scm_dynwind_free (void *mem)
     Arrange for MEM to be freed automatically whenever the current
     context is exited, whether normally or non-locally.
     ‘scm_dynwind_free (mem)’ is an equivalent shorthand for
     ‘scm_dynwind_unwind_handler (free, mem, SCM_F_WIND_EXPLICITLY)’.

File: guile.info,  Node: Handling Errors,  Next: Continuation Barriers,  Prev: Dynamic Wind,  Up: Control Mechanisms

6.13.11 How to Handle Errors
----------------------------

Error handling is based on ‘catch’ and ‘throw’.  Errors are always
thrown with a KEY and four arguments:

   • KEY: a symbol which indicates the type of error.  The symbols used
     by libguile are listed below.

   • SUBR: the name of the procedure from which the error is thrown, or
     ‘#f’.

   • MESSAGE: a string (possibly language and system dependent)
     describing the error.  The tokens ‘~A’ and ‘~S’ can be embedded
     within the message: they will be replaced with members of the ARGS
     list when the message is printed.  ‘~A’ indicates an argument
     printed using ‘display’, while ‘~S’ indicates an argument printed
     using ‘write’.  MESSAGE can also be ‘#f’, to allow it to be derived
     from the KEY by the error handler (may be useful if the KEY is to
     be thrown from both C and Scheme).

   • ARGS: a list of arguments to be used to expand ‘~A’ and ‘~S’ tokens
     in MESSAGE.  Can also be ‘#f’ if no arguments are required.

   • REST: a list of any additional objects required.  e.g., when the
     key is ‘'system-error’, this contains the C errno value.  Can also
     be ‘#f’ if no additional objects are required.

   In addition to ‘catch’ and ‘throw’, the following Scheme facilities
are available:

 -- Scheme Procedure: display-error frame port subr message args rest
 -- C Function: scm_display_error (frame, port, subr, message, args,
          rest)
     Display an error message to the output port PORT.  FRAME is the
     frame in which the error occurred, SUBR is the name of the
     procedure in which the error occurred and MESSAGE is the actual
     error message, which may contain formatting instructions.  These
     will format the arguments in the list ARGS accordingly.  REST is
     currently ignored.

   The following are the error keys defined by libguile and the
situations in which they are used:

   • ‘error-signal’: thrown after receiving an unhandled fatal signal
     such as SIGSEGV, SIGBUS, SIGFPE etc.  The REST argument in the
     throw contains the coded signal number (at present this is not the
     same as the usual Unix signal number).

   • ‘system-error’: thrown after the operating system indicates an
     error condition.  The REST argument in the throw contains the errno
     value.

   • ‘numerical-overflow’: numerical overflow.

   • ‘out-of-range’: the arguments to a procedure do not fall within the
     accepted domain.

   • ‘wrong-type-arg’: an argument to a procedure has the wrong type.

   • ‘wrong-number-of-args’: a procedure was called with the wrong
     number of arguments.

   • ‘memory-allocation-error’: memory allocation error.

   • ‘stack-overflow’: stack overflow error.

   • ‘regular-expression-syntax’: errors generated by the regular
     expression library.

   • ‘misc-error’: other errors.

6.13.11.1 C Support
...................

In the following C functions, SUBR and MESSAGE parameters can be ‘NULL’
to give the effect of ‘#f’ described above.

 -- C Function: SCM scm_error (SCM KEY, char *SUBR, char *MESSAGE, SCM
          ARGS, SCM REST)
     Throw an error, as per ‘scm-error’ (*note Error Reporting::).

 -- C Function: void scm_syserror (char *SUBR)
 -- C Function: void scm_syserror_msg (char *SUBR, char *MESSAGE, SCM
          ARGS)
     Throw an error with key ‘system-error’ and supply ‘errno’ in the
     REST argument.  For ‘scm_syserror’ the message is generated using
     ‘strerror’.

     Care should be taken that any code in between the failing operation
     and the call to these routines doesn’t change ‘errno’.

 -- C Function: void scm_num_overflow (char *SUBR)
 -- C Function: void scm_out_of_range (char *SUBR, SCM BAD_VALUE)
 -- C Function: void scm_wrong_num_args (SCM PROC)
 -- C Function: void scm_wrong_type_arg (char *SUBR, int ARGNUM, SCM
          BAD_VALUE)
 -- C Function: void scm_wrong_type_arg_msg (char *SUBR, int ARGNUM, SCM
          BAD_VALUE, const char *EXPECTED)
 -- C Function: void scm_memory_error (char *SUBR)
 -- C Function: void scm_misc_error (const char *SUBR, const char
          *MESSAGE, SCM ARGS)
     Throw an error with the various keys described above.

     In ‘scm_wrong_num_args’, PROC should be a Scheme symbol which is
     the name of the procedure incorrectly invoked.  The other routines
     take the name of the invoked procedure as a C string.

     In ‘scm_wrong_type_arg_msg’, EXPECTED is a C string describing the
     type of argument that was expected.

     In ‘scm_misc_error’, MESSAGE is the error message string, possibly
     containing ‘simple-format’ escapes (*note Writing::), and the
     corresponding arguments in the ARGS list.

6.13.11.2 Signalling Type Errors
................................

Every function visible at the Scheme level should aggressively check the
types of its arguments, to avoid misinterpreting a value, and perhaps
causing a segmentation fault.  Guile provides some macros to make this
easier.

 -- Macro: void SCM_ASSERT (int TEST, SCM OBJ, unsigned int POSITION,
          const char *SUBR)
 -- Macro: void SCM_ASSERT_TYPE (int TEST, SCM OBJ, unsigned int
          POSITION, const char *SUBR, const char *EXPECTED)
     If TEST is zero, signal a “wrong type argument” error, attributed
     to the subroutine named SUBR, operating on the value OBJ, which is
     the POSITION’th argument of SUBR.

     In ‘SCM_ASSERT_TYPE’, EXPECTED is a C string describing the type of
     argument that was expected.

 -- Macro: int SCM_ARG1
 -- Macro: int SCM_ARG2
 -- Macro: int SCM_ARG3
 -- Macro: int SCM_ARG4
 -- Macro: int SCM_ARG5
 -- Macro: int SCM_ARG6
 -- Macro: int SCM_ARG7
     One of the above values can be used for POSITION to indicate the
     number of the argument of SUBR which is being checked.
     Alternatively, a positive integer number can be used, which allows
     to check arguments after the seventh.  However, for parameter
     numbers up to seven it is preferable to use ‘SCM_ARGN’ instead of
     the corresponding raw number, since it will make the code easier to
     understand.

 -- Macro: int SCM_ARGn
     Passing a value of zero or ‘SCM_ARGn’ for POSITION allows to leave
     it unspecified which argument’s type is incorrect.  Again,
     ‘SCM_ARGn’ should be preferred over a raw zero constant.

File: guile.info,  Node: Continuation Barriers,  Prev: Handling Errors,  Up: Control Mechanisms

6.13.12 Continuation Barriers
-----------------------------

The non-local flow of control caused by continuations might sometimes
not be wanted.  You can use ‘with-continuation-barrier’ to erect fences
that continuations can not pass.

 -- Scheme Procedure: with-continuation-barrier proc
 -- C Function: scm_with_continuation_barrier (proc)
     Call PROC and return its result.  Do not allow the invocation of
     continuations that would leave or enter the dynamic extent of the
     call to ‘with-continuation-barrier’.  Such an attempt causes an
     error to be signaled.

     Throws (such as errors) that are not caught from within PROC are
     caught by ‘with-continuation-barrier’.  In that case, a short
     message is printed to the current error port and ‘#f’ is returned.

     Thus, ‘with-continuation-barrier’ returns exactly once.

 -- C Function: void * scm_c_with_continuation_barrier (void *(*func)
          (void *), void *data)
     Like ‘scm_with_continuation_barrier’ but call FUNC on DATA.  When
     an error is caught, ‘NULL’ is returned.

File: guile.info,  Node: Input and Output,  Next: Regular Expressions,  Prev: Control Mechanisms,  Up: API Reference

