8.4 Slot Options
================

When specifying a slot (in a ‘(define-class ...)’ form), various options
can be specified in addition to the slot’s name.  Each option is
specified by a keyword.  The list of possible keywords is as follows.

 -- slot option: #:init-value init-value
 -- slot option: #:init-form init-form
 -- slot option: #:init-thunk init-thunk
 -- slot option: #:init-keyword init-keyword
     These options provide various ways to specify how to initialize the
     slot’s value at instance creation time.

     INIT-VALUE specifies a fixed initial slot value (shared across all
     new instances of the class).

     INIT-THUNK specifies a thunk that will provide a default value for
     the slot.  The thunk is called when a new instance is created and
     should return the desired initial slot value.

     INIT-FORM specifies a form that, when evaluated, will return an
     initial value for the slot.  The form is evaluated each time that
     an instance of the class is created, in the lexical environment of
     the containing ‘define-class’ expression.

     INIT-KEYWORD specifies a keyword that can be used to pass an
     initial slot value to ‘make’ when creating a new instance.

     Note that, since an ‘init-value’ value is shared across all
     instances of a class, you should only use it when the initial value
     is an immutable value, like a constant.  If you want to initialize
     a slot with a fresh, independently mutable value, you should use
     ‘init-thunk’ or ‘init-form’ instead.  Consider the following
     example.

          (define-class <chbouib> ()
            (hashtab #:init-value (make-hash-table)))

     Here only one hash table is created and all instances of
     ‘<chbouib>’ have their ‘hashtab’ slot refer to it.  In order to
     have each instance of ‘<chbouib>’ refer to a new hash table, you
     should instead write:

          (define-class <chbouib> ()
            (hashtab #:init-thunk make-hash-table))

     or:

          (define-class <chbouib> ()
            (hashtab #:init-form (make-hash-table)))

     If more than one of these options is specified for the same slot,
     the order of precedence, highest first is

        • ‘#:init-keyword’, if INIT-KEYWORD is present in the options
          passed to ‘make’

        • ‘#:init-thunk’, ‘#:init-form’ or ‘#:init-value’.

     If the slot definition contains more than one initialization option
     of the same precedence, the later ones are ignored.  If a slot is
     not initialized at all, its value is unbound.

     In general, slots that are shared between more than one instance
     are only initialized at new instance creation time if the slot
     value is unbound at that time.  However, if the new instance
     creation specifies a valid init keyword and value for a shared
     slot, the slot is re-initialized regardless of its previous value.

     Note, however, that the power of GOOPS’ metaobject protocol means
     that everything written here may be customized or overridden for
     particular classes!  The slot initializations described here are
     performed by the least specialized method of the generic function
     ‘initialize’, whose signature is

          (define-method (initialize (object <object>) initargs) ...)

     The initialization of instances of any given class can be
     customized by defining a ‘initialize’ method that is specialized
     for that class, and the author of the specialized method may decide
     to call ‘next-method’ - which will result in a call to the next
     less specialized ‘initialize’ method - at any point within the
     specialized code, or maybe not at all.  In general, therefore, the
     initialization mechanisms described here may be modified or
     overridden by more specialized code, or may not be supported at all
     for particular classes.

 -- slot option: #:getter getter
 -- slot option: #:setter setter
 -- slot option: #:accessor accessor
     Given an object OBJ with slots named ‘foo’ and ‘bar’, it is always
     possible to read and write those slots by calling ‘slot-ref’ and
     ‘slot-set!’ with the relevant slot name; for example:

          (slot-ref OBJ 'foo)
          (slot-set! OBJ 'bar 25)

     The ‘#:getter’, ‘#:setter’ and ‘#:accessor’ options, if present,
     tell GOOPS to create generic function and method definitions that
     can be used to get and set the slot value more conveniently.
     GETTER specifies a generic function to which GOOPS will add a
     method for getting the slot value.  SETTER specifies a generic
     function to which GOOPS will add a method for setting the slot
     value.  ACCESSOR specifies an accessor to which GOOPS will add
     methods for both getting and setting the slot value.

     So if a class includes a slot definition like this:

          (c #:getter get-count #:setter set-count #:accessor count)

     GOOPS defines generic function methods such that the slot value can
     be referenced using either the getter or the accessor -

          (let ((current-count (get-count obj))) ...)
          (let ((current-count (count obj))) ...)

     - and set using either the setter or the accessor -

          (set-count obj (+ 1 current-count))
          (set! (count obj) (+ 1 current-count))

     Note that

        • with an accessor, the slot value is set using the generalized
          ‘set!’ syntax

        • in practice, it is unusual for a slot to use all three of
          these options: read-only, write-only and read-write slots
          would typically use only ‘#:getter’, ‘#:setter’ and
          ‘#:accessor’ options respectively.

     The binding of the specified names is done in the environment of
     the ‘define-class’ expression.  If the names are already bound (in
     that environment) to values that cannot be upgraded to generic
     functions, those values are overwritten when the ‘define-class’
     expression is evaluated.  For more detail, see *note
     ensure-generic: Generic Function Internals.

 -- slot option: #:allocation allocation
     The ‘#:allocation’ option tells GOOPS how to allocate storage for
     the slot.  Possible values for ALLOCATION are

        • ‘#:instance’

          Indicates that GOOPS should create separate storage for this
          slot in each new instance of the containing class (and its
          subclasses).  This is the default.

        • ‘#:class’

          Indicates that GOOPS should create storage for this slot that
          is shared by all instances of the containing class (and its
          subclasses).  In other words, a slot in class C with
          allocation ‘#:class’ is shared by all INSTANCEs for which
          ‘(is-a? INSTANCE C)’.  This permits defining a kind of global
          variable which can be accessed only by (in)direct instances of
          the class which defines the slot.

        • ‘#:each-subclass’

          Indicates that GOOPS should create storage for this slot that
          is shared by all _direct_ instances of the containing class,
          and that whenever a subclass of the containing class is
          defined, GOOPS should create a new storage for the slot that
          is shared by all _direct_ instances of the subclass.  In other
          words, a slot with allocation ‘#:each-subclass’ is shared by
          all instances with the same ‘class-of’.

        • ‘#:virtual’

          Indicates that GOOPS should not allocate storage for this
          slot.  The slot definition must also include the ‘#:slot-ref’
          and ‘#:slot-set!’ options to specify how to reference and set
          the value for this slot.  See the example below.

     Slot allocation options are processed when defining a new class by
     the generic function ‘compute-get-n-set’, which is specialized by
     the class’s metaclass.  Hence new types of slot allocation can be
     implemented by defining a new metaclass and a method for
     ‘compute-get-n-set’ that is specialized for the new metaclass.  For
     an example of how to do this, see *note Customizing Class
     Definition::.

 -- slot option: #:slot-ref getter
 -- slot option: #:slot-set! setter
     The ‘#:slot-ref’ and ‘#:slot-set!’ options must be specified if the
     slot allocation is ‘#:virtual’, and are ignored otherwise.

     GETTER should be a closure taking a single INSTANCE parameter that
     returns the current slot value.  SETTER should be a closure taking
     two parameters - INSTANCE and NEW-VAL - that sets the slot value to
     NEW-VAL.

File: guile.info,  Node: Slot Description Example,  Next: Methods and Generic Functions,  Prev: Slot Options,  Up: GOOPS

