8.11 The Metaobject Protocol
============================

At this point, we’ve said about as much as can be said about GOOPS
without having to confront the idea of the metaobject protocol.  There
are a couple more topics that could be discussed in isolation first —
class redefinition, and changing the class of existing instances — but
in practice developers using them will be advanced enough to want to
understand the metaobject protocol too, and will probably be using the
protocol to customize exactly what happens during these events.

   So let’s plunge in.  GOOPS is based on a “metaobject protocol” (aka
“MOP”) derived from the ones used in CLOS (the Common Lisp Object
System), tiny-clos (a small Scheme implementation of a subset of CLOS
functionality) and STKlos.

   The MOP underlies many possible GOOPS customizations — such as
defining an ‘initialize’ method to customize the initialization of
instances of an application-defined class — and an understanding of the
MOP makes it much easier to explain such customizations in a precise
way.  And at a deeper level, understanding the MOP is a key part of
understanding GOOPS, and of taking full advantage of GOOPS’ power, by
customizing the behaviour of GOOPS itself.

* Menu:

* Metaobjects and the Metaobject Protocol::
* Metaclasses::
* MOP Specification::
* Instance Creation Protocol::
* Class Definition Protocol::
* Customizing Class Definition::
* Method Definition::
* Method Definition Internals::
* Generic Function Internals::
* Generic Function Invocation::

File: guile.info,  Node: Metaobjects and the Metaobject Protocol,  Next: Metaclasses,  Up: The Metaobject Protocol

8.11.1 Metaobjects and the Metaobject Protocol
----------------------------------------------

The building blocks of GOOPS are classes, slot definitions, instances,
generic functions and methods.  A class is a grouping of inheritance
relations and slot definitions.  An instance is an object with slots
that are allocated following the rules implied by its class’s
superclasses and slot definitions.  A generic function is a collection
of methods and rules for determining which of those methods to apply
when the generic function is invoked.  A method is a procedure and a set
of specializers that specify the type of arguments to which the
procedure is applicable.

   Of these entities, GOOPS represents classes, generic functions and
methods as “metaobjects”.  In other words, the values in a GOOPS program
that describe classes, generic functions and methods, are themselves
instances (or “objects”) of special GOOPS classes that encapsulate the
behaviour, respectively, of classes, generic functions, and methods.

   (The other two entities are slot definitions and instances.  Slot
definitions are not strictly instances, but every slot definition is
associated with a GOOPS class that specifies the behaviour of the slot
as regards accessibility and protection from garbage collection.
Instances are of course objects in the usual sense, and there is no
benefit from thinking of them as metaobjects.)

   The “metaobject protocol” (or “MOP”) is the specification of the
generic functions which determine the behaviour of these metaobjects and
the circumstances in which these generic functions are invoked.

   For a concrete example of what this means, consider how GOOPS
calculates the set of slots for a class that is being defined using
‘define-class’.  The desired set of slots is the union of the new
class’s direct slots and the slots of all its superclasses.  But
‘define-class’ itself does not perform this calculation.  Instead, there
is a method of the ‘initialize’ generic function that is specialized for
instances of type ‘<class>’, and it is this method that performs the
slot calculation.

   ‘initialize’ is a generic function which GOOPS calls whenever a new
instance is created, immediately after allocating memory for a new
instance, in order to initialize the new instance’s slots.  The sequence
of steps is as follows.

   • ‘define-class’ uses ‘make’ to make a new instance of the ‘<class>’
     class, passing as initialization arguments the superclasses, slot
     definitions and class options that were specified in the
     ‘define-class’ form.

   • ‘make’ allocates memory for the new instance, and invokes the
     ‘initialize’ generic function to initialize the new instance’s
     slots.

   • The ‘initialize’ generic function applies the method that is
     specialized for instances of type ‘<class>’, and this method
     performs the slot calculation.

   In other words, rather than being hardcoded in ‘define-class’, the
default behaviour of class definition is encapsulated by generic
function methods that are specialized for the class ‘<class>’.

   It is possible to create a new class that inherits from ‘<class>’,
which is called a “metaclass”, and to write a new ‘initialize’ method
that is specialized for instances of the new metaclass.  Then, if the
‘define-class’ form includes a ‘#:metaclass’ class option whose value is
the new metaclass, the class that is defined by the ‘define-class’ form
will be an instance of the new metaclass rather than of the default
‘<class>’, and will be defined in accordance with the new ‘initialize’
method.  Thus the default slot calculation, as well as any other aspect
of the new class’s relationship with its superclasses, can be modified
or overridden.

   In a similar way, the behaviour of generic functions can be modified
or overridden by creating a new class that inherits from the standard
generic function class ‘<generic>’, writing appropriate methods that are
specialized to the new class, and creating new generic functions that
are instances of the new class.

   The same is true for method metaobjects.  And the same basic
mechanism allows the application class author to write an ‘initialize’
method that is specialized to their application class, to initialize
instances of that class.

   Such is the power of the MOP. Note that ‘initialize’ is just one of a
large number of generic functions that can be customized to modify the
behaviour of application objects and classes and of GOOPS itself.  Each
following section covers a particular area of GOOPS functionality, and
describes the generic functions that are relevant for customization of
that area.

File: guile.info,  Node: Metaclasses,  Next: MOP Specification,  Prev: Metaobjects and the Metaobject Protocol,  Up: The Metaobject Protocol

8.11.2 Metaclasses
------------------

A “metaclass” is the class of an object which represents a GOOPS class.
Put more succinctly, a metaclass is a class’s class.

   Most GOOPS classes have the metaclass ‘<class>’ and, by default, any
new class that is created using ‘define-class’ has the metaclass
‘<class>’.

   But what does this really mean?  To find out, let’s look in more
detail at what happens when a new class is created using ‘define-class’:

     (define-class <my-class> (<object>) . slots)

Guile expands this to something like:

     (define <my-class> (class (<object>) . slots))

which in turn expands to:

     (define <my-class>
       (make <class> #:dsupers (list <object>) #:slots slots))

   As this expansion makes clear, the resulting value of ‘<my-class>’ is
an instance of the class ‘<class>’ with slot values specifying the
superclasses and slot definitions for the class ‘<my-class>’.
(‘#:dsupers’ and ‘#:slots’ are initialization keywords for the ‘dsupers’
and ‘dslots’ slots of the ‘<class>’ class.)

   Now suppose that you want to define a new class with a metaclass
other than the default ‘<class>’.  This is done by writing:

     (define-class <my-class2> (<object>)
        slot ...
        #:metaclass <my-metaclass>)

and Guile expands _this_ to something like:

     (define <my-class2>
       (make <my-metaclass> #:dsupers (list <object>) #:slots slots))

   In this case, the value of ‘<my-class2>’ is an instance of the more
specialized class ‘<my-metaclass>’.  Note that ‘<my-metaclass>’ itself
must previously have been defined as a subclass of ‘<class>’.  For a
full discussion of when and how it is useful to define new metaclasses,
see *note MOP Specification::.

   Now let’s make an instance of ‘<my-class2>’:

     (define my-object (make <my-class2> ...))

   All of the following statements are correct expressions of the
relationships between ‘my-object’, ‘<my-class2>’, ‘<my-metaclass>’ and
‘<class>’.

   • ‘my-object’ is an instance of the class ‘<my-class2>’.

   • ‘<my-class2>’ is an instance of the class ‘<my-metaclass>’.

   • ‘<my-metaclass>’ is an instance of the class ‘<class>’.

   • The class of ‘my-object’ is ‘<my-class2>’.

   • The class of ‘<my-class2>’ is ‘<my-metaclass>’.

   • The class of ‘<my-metaclass>’ is ‘<class>’.

File: guile.info,  Node: MOP Specification,  Next: Instance Creation Protocol,  Prev: Metaclasses,  Up: The Metaobject Protocol

8.11.3 MOP Specification
------------------------

The aim of the MOP specification in this chapter is to specify all the
customizable generic function invocations that can be made by the
standard GOOPS syntax, procedures and methods, and to explain the
protocol for customizing such invocations.

   A generic function invocation is customizable if the types of the
arguments to which it is applied are not completely determined by the
lexical context in which the invocation appears.  For example, the
‘(initialize INSTANCE INITARGS)’ invocation in the default
‘make-instance’ method is customizable, because the type of the
‘INSTANCE’ argument is determined by the class that was passed to
‘make-instance’.

   (Whereas — to give a counter-example — the ‘(make <generic> #:name
',name)’ invocation in ‘define-generic’ is not customizable, because all
of its arguments have lexically determined types.)

   When using this rule to decide whether a given generic function
invocation is customizable, we ignore arguments that are expected to be
handled in method definitions as a single “rest” list argument.

   For each customizable generic function invocation, the “invocation
protocol” is explained by specifying

   • what, conceptually, the applied method is intended to do

   • what assumptions, if any, the caller makes about the applied
     method’s side effects

   • what the caller expects to get as the applied method’s return
     value.

File: guile.info,  Node: Instance Creation Protocol,  Next: Class Definition Protocol,  Prev: MOP Specification,  Up: The Metaobject Protocol

8.11.4 Instance Creation Protocol
---------------------------------

‘make <class> . INITARGS’ (method)

   • ‘allocate-instance CLASS INITARGS’ (generic)

     The applied ‘allocate-instance’ method should allocate storage for
     a new instance of class CLASS and return the uninitialized
     instance.

   • ‘initialize INSTANCE INITARGS’ (generic)

     INSTANCE is the uninitialized instance returned by
     ‘allocate-instance’.  The applied method should initialize the new
     instance in whatever sense is appropriate for its class.  The
     method’s return value is ignored.

   ‘make’ itself is a generic function.  Hence the ‘make’ invocation
itself can be customized in the case where the new instance’s metaclass
is more specialized than the default ‘<class>’, by defining a ‘make’
method that is specialized to that metaclass.

   Normally, however, the method for classes with metaclass ‘<class>’
will be applied.  This method calls two generic functions:

   • (allocate-instance CLASS .  INITARGS)

   • (initialize INSTANCE .  INITARGS)

   ‘allocate-instance’ allocates storage for and returns the new
instance, uninitialized.  You might customize ‘allocate-instance’, for
example, if you wanted to provide a GOOPS wrapper around some other
object programming system.

   To do this, you would create a specialized metaclass, which would act
as the metaclass for all classes and instances from the other system.
Then define an ‘allocate-instance’ method, specialized to that
metaclass, which calls a Guile primitive C function (or FFI code), which
in turn allocates the new instance using the interface of the other
object system.

   In this case, for a complete system, you would also need to customize
a number of other generic functions like ‘make’ and ‘initialize’, so
that GOOPS knows how to make classes from the other system, access
instance slots, and so on.

   ‘initialize’ initializes the instance that is returned by
‘allocate-instance’.  The standard GOOPS methods perform initializations
appropriate to the instance class.

   • At the least specialized level, the method for instances of type
     ‘<object>’ performs internal GOOPS instance initialization, and
     initializes the instance’s slots according to the slot definitions
     and any slot initialization keywords that appear in INITARGS.

   • The method for instances of type ‘<class>’ calls ‘(next-method)’,
     then performs the class initializations described in *note Class
     Definition Protocol::.

   • and so on for generic functions, methods, operator classes ...

   Similarly, you can customize the initialization of instances of any
application-defined class by defining an ‘initialize’ method specialized
to that class.

   Imagine a class whose instances’ slots need to be initialized at
instance creation time by querying a database.  Although it might be
possible to achieve this a combination of ‘#:init-thunk’ keywords and
closures in the slot definitions, it may be neater to write an
‘initialize’ method for the class that queries the database once and
initializes all the dependent slot values according to the results.

File: guile.info,  Node: Class Definition Protocol,  Next: Customizing Class Definition,  Prev: Instance Creation Protocol,  Up: The Metaobject Protocol

8.11.5 Class Definition Protocol
--------------------------------

Here is a summary diagram of the syntax, procedures and generic
functions that may be involved in class definition.

‘define-class’ (syntax)

   • ‘class’ (syntax)

        • ‘make-class’ (procedure)

             • ‘ensure-metaclass’ (procedure)

             • ‘make METACLASS ...’ (generic)

                  • ‘allocate-instance’ (generic)

                  • ‘initialize’ (generic)

                       • ‘compute-cpl’ (generic)

                            • ‘compute-std-cpl’ (procedure)

                       • ‘compute-slots’ (generic)

                       • ‘compute-get-n-set’ (generic)

                       • ‘compute-getter-method’ (generic)

                       • ‘compute-setter-method’ (generic)

   • ‘class-redefinition’ (generic)

        • ‘remove-class-accessors’ (generic)

        • ‘update-direct-method!’ (generic)

        • ‘update-direct-subclass!’ (generic)

   Wherever a step above is marked as “generic”, it can be customized,
and the detail shown below it is only “correct” insofar as it describes
what the default method of that generic function does.  For example, if
you write an ‘initialize’ method, for some metaclass, that does not call
‘next-method’ and does not call ‘compute-cpl’, then ‘compute-cpl’ will
not be called when a class is defined with that metaclass.

   A ‘(define-class ...)’ form (*note Class Definition::) expands to an
expression which

   • checks that it is being evaluated only at top level

   • defines any accessors that are implied by the SLOT-DEFINITIONs

   • uses ‘class’ to create the new class

   • checks for a previous class definition for NAME and, if found,
     handles the redefinition by invoking ‘class-redefinition’ (*note
     Redefining a Class::).

 -- syntax: class name (super ...) slot-definition ... class-option ...
     Return a newly created class that inherits from SUPERs, with direct
     slots defined by SLOT-DEFINITIONs and CLASS-OPTIONs.  For the
     format of SLOT-DEFINITIONs and CLASS-OPTIONs, see *note
     define-class: Class Definition.

‘class’ expands to an expression which

   • processes the class and slot definition options to check that they
     are well-formed, to convert the ‘#:init-form’ option to an
     ‘#:init-thunk’ option, to supply a default environment parameter
     (the current top-level environment) and to evaluate all the bits
     that need to be evaluated

   • calls ‘make-class’ to create the class with the processed and
     evaluated parameters.

 -- procedure: make-class supers slots class-option ...
     Return a newly created class that inherits from SUPERS, with direct
     slots defined by SLOTS and CLASS-OPTIONs.  For the format of SLOTS
     and CLASS-OPTIONs, see *note define-class: Class Definition, except
     note that for ‘make-class’, SLOTS is a separate list of slot
     definitions.

‘make-class’

   • adds ‘<object>’ to the SUPERS list if SUPERS is empty or if none of
     the classes in SUPERS have ‘<object>’ in their class precedence
     list

   • defaults the ‘#:environment’, ‘#:name’ and ‘#:metaclass’ options,
     if they are not specified by OPTIONS, to the current top-level
     environment, the unbound value, and ‘(ensure-metaclass SUPERS)’
     respectively

   • checks for duplicate classes in SUPERS and duplicate slot names in
     SLOTS, and signals an error if there are any duplicates

   • calls ‘make’, passing the metaclass as the first parameter and all
     other parameters as option keywords with values.

 -- procedure: ensure-metaclass supers env
     Return a metaclass suitable for a class that inherits from the list
     of classes in SUPERS.  The returned metaclass is the union by
     inheritance of the metaclasses of the classes in SUPERS.

     In the simplest case, where all the SUPERS are straightforward
     classes with metaclass ‘<class>’, the returned metaclass is just
     ‘<class>’.

     For a more complex example, suppose that SUPERS contained one class
     with metaclass ‘<operator-class>’ and one with metaclass
     ‘<foreign-object-class>’.  Then the returned metaclass would be a
     class that inherits from both ‘<operator-class>’ and
     ‘<foreign-object-class>’.

     If SUPERS is the empty list, ‘ensure-metaclass’ returns the default
     GOOPS metaclass ‘<class>’.

     GOOPS keeps a list of the metaclasses created by
     ‘ensure-metaclass’, so that each required type of metaclass only
     has to be created once.

     The ‘env’ parameter is ignored.

 -- generic: make metaclass initarg ...
     METACLASS is the metaclass of the class being defined, either taken
     from the ‘#:metaclass’ class option or computed by
     ‘ensure-metaclass’.  The applied method must create and return the
     fully initialized class metaobject for the new class definition.

   The ‘(make METACLASS INITARG ...)’ invocation is a particular case of
the instance creation protocol covered in the previous section.  It will
create an class metaobject with metaclass METACLASS.  By default, this
metaobject will be initialized by the ‘initialize’ method that is
specialized for instances of type ‘<class>’.

   The ‘initialize’ method for classes (signature ‘(initialize <class>
initargs)’) calls the following generic functions.

   • ‘compute-cpl CLASS’ (generic)

     The applied method should compute and return the class precedence
     list for CLASS as a list of class metaobjects.  When ‘compute-cpl’
     is called, the following CLASS metaobject slots have all been
     initialized: ‘name’, ‘direct-supers’, ‘direct-slots’,
     ‘direct-subclasses’ (empty), ‘direct-methods’.  The value returned
     by ‘compute-cpl’ will be stored in the ‘cpl’ slot.

   • ‘compute-slots CLASS’ (generic)

     The applied method should compute and return the slots (union of
     direct and inherited) for CLASS as a list of slot definitions.
     When ‘compute-slots’ is called, all the CLASS metaobject slots
     mentioned for ‘compute-cpl’ have been initialized, plus the
     following: ‘cpl’, ‘redefined’ (‘#f’), ‘environment’.  The value
     returned by ‘compute-slots’ will be stored in the ‘slots’ slot.

   • ‘compute-get-n-set CLASS SLOT-DEF’ (generic)

     ‘initialize’ calls ‘compute-get-n-set’ for each slot computed by
     ‘compute-slots’.  The applied method should compute and return a
     pair of closures that, respectively, get and set the value of the
     specified slot.  The get closure should have arity 1 and expect a
     single argument that is the instance whose slot value is to be
     retrieved.  The set closure should have arity 2 and expect two
     arguments, where the first argument is the instance whose slot
     value is to be set and the second argument is the new value for
     that slot.  The closures should be returned in a two element list:
     ‘(list GET SET)’.

     The closures returned by ‘compute-get-n-set’ are stored as part of
     the value of the CLASS metaobject’s ‘getters-n-setters’ slot.
     Specifically, the value of this slot is a list with the same number
     of elements as there are slots in the class, and each element looks
     either like

          (SLOT-NAME-SYMBOL INIT-FUNCTION . INDEX)

     or like

          (SLOT-NAME-SYMBOL INIT-FUNCTION GET SET)

     Where the get and set closures are replaced by INDEX, the slot is
     an instance slot and INDEX is the slot’s index in the underlying
     structure: GOOPS knows how to get and set the value of such slots
     and so does not need specially constructed get and set closures.
     Otherwise, GET and SET are the closures returned by
     ‘compute-get-n-set’.

     The structure of the ‘getters-n-setters’ slot value is important
     when understanding the next customizable generic functions that
     ‘initialize’ calls...

   • ‘compute-getter-method CLASS GNS’ (generic)

     ‘initialize’ calls ‘compute-getter-method’ for each of the class’s
     slots (as determined by ‘compute-slots’) that includes a ‘#:getter’
     or ‘#:accessor’ slot option.  GNS is the element of the CLASS
     metaobject’s ‘getters-n-setters’ slot that specifies how the slot
     in question is referenced and set, as described above under
     ‘compute-get-n-set’.  The applied method should create and return a
     method that is specialized for instances of type CLASS and uses the
     get closure to retrieve the slot’s value.  ‘initialize’ uses
     ‘add-method!’ to add the returned method to the generic function
     named by the slot definition’s ‘#:getter’ or ‘#:accessor’ option.

   • ‘compute-setter-method CLASS GNS’ (generic)

     ‘compute-setter-method’ is invoked with the same arguments as
     ‘compute-getter-method’, for each of the class’s slots that
     includes a ‘#:setter’ or ‘#:accessor’ slot option.  The applied
     method should create and return a method that is specialized for
     instances of type CLASS and uses the set closure to set the slot’s
     value.  ‘initialize’ then uses ‘add-method!’ to add the returned
     method to the generic function named by the slot definition’s
     ‘#:setter’ or ‘#:accessor’ option.

File: guile.info,  Node: Customizing Class Definition,  Next: Method Definition,  Prev: Class Definition Protocol,  Up: The Metaobject Protocol

8.11.6 Customizing Class Definition
-----------------------------------

If the metaclass of the new class is something more specialized than the
default ‘<class>’, then the type of CLASS in the calls above is more
specialized than ‘<class>’, and hence it becomes possible to define
generic function methods, specialized for the new class’s metaclass,
that can modify or override the default behaviour of ‘initialize’,
‘compute-cpl’ or ‘compute-get-n-set’.

   ‘compute-cpl’ computes the class precedence list (“CPL”) for the new
class (*note Class Precedence List::), and returns it as a list of class
objects.  The CPL is important because it defines a superclass ordering
that is used, when a generic function is invoked upon an instance of the
class, to decide which of the available generic function methods is the
most specific.  Hence ‘compute-cpl’ could be customized in order to
modify the CPL ordering algorithm for all classes with a special
metaclass.

   The default CPL algorithm is encapsulated by the ‘compute-std-cpl’
procedure, which is called by the default ‘compute-cpl’ method.

 -- procedure: compute-std-cpl class
     Compute and return the class precedence list for CLASS according to
     the algorithm described in *note Class Precedence List::.

   ‘compute-slots’ computes and returns a list of all slot definitions
for the new class.  By default, this list includes the direct slot
definitions from the ‘define-class’ form, plus the slot definitions that
are inherited from the new class’s superclasses.  The default
‘compute-slots’ method uses the CPL computed by ‘compute-cpl’ to
calculate this union of slot definitions, with the rule that slots
inherited from superclasses are shadowed by direct slots with the same
name.  One possible reason for customizing ‘compute-slots’ would be to
implement an alternative resolution strategy for slot name conflicts.

   ‘compute-get-n-set’ computes the low-level closures that will be used
to get and set the value of a particular slot, and returns them in a
list with two elements.

   The closures returned depend on how storage for that slot is
allocated.  The standard ‘compute-get-n-set’ method, specialized for
classes of type ‘<class>’, handles the standard GOOPS values for the
‘#:allocation’ slot option (*note allocation: Slot Options.).  By
defining a new ‘compute-get-n-set’ method for a more specialized
metaclass, it is possible to support new types of slot allocation.

   Suppose you wanted to create a large number of instances of some
class with a slot that should be shared between some but not all
instances of that class - say every 10 instances should share the same
slot storage.  The following example shows how to implement and use a
new type of slot allocation to do this.

     (define-class <batched-allocation-metaclass> (<class>))

     (let ((batch-allocation-count 0)
           (batch-get-n-set #f))
       (define-method (compute-get-n-set
                          (class <batched-allocation-metaclass>) s)
         (case (slot-definition-allocation s)
           ((#:batched)
            ;; If we've already used the same slot storage for 10 instances,
            ;; reset variables.
            (if (= batch-allocation-count 10)
                (begin
                  (set! batch-allocation-count 0)
                  (set! batch-get-n-set #f)))
            ;; If we don't have a current pair of get and set closures,
            ;; create one.  make-closure-variable returns a pair of closures
            ;; around a single Scheme variable - see goops.scm for details.
            (or batch-get-n-set
                (set! batch-get-n-set (make-closure-variable)))
            ;; Increment the batch allocation count.
            (set! batch-allocation-count (+ batch-allocation-count 1))
            batch-get-n-set)

           ;; Call next-method to handle standard allocation types.
           (else (next-method)))))

     (define-class <class-using-batched-slot> ()
       ...
       (c #:allocation #:batched)
       ...
       #:metaclass <batched-allocation-metaclass>)

   The usage of ‘compute-getter-method’ and ‘compute-setter-method’ is
described in *note Class Definition Protocol::.

   ‘compute-cpl’ and ‘compute-get-n-set’ are called by the standard
‘initialize’ method for classes whose metaclass is ‘<class>’.  But
‘initialize’ itself can also be modified, by defining an ‘initialize’
method specialized to the new class’s metaclass.  Such a method could
complete override the standard behaviour, by not calling ‘(next-method)’
at all, but more typically it would perform additional class
initialization steps before and/or after calling ‘(next-method)’ for the
standard behaviour.

File: guile.info,  Node: Method Definition,  Next: Method Definition Internals,  Prev: Customizing Class Definition,  Up: The Metaobject Protocol

8.11.7 Method Definition
------------------------

‘define-method’ (syntax)

   • ‘add-method! TARGET METHOD’ (generic)

‘define-method’ invokes the ‘add-method!’ generic function to handle
adding the new method to a variety of possible targets.  GOOPS includes
methods to handle TARGET as

   • a generic function (the most common case)

   • a procedure

   • a primitive generic (*note Extending Primitives::)

   By defining further methods for ‘add-method!’, you can theoretically
handle adding methods to further types of target.

File: guile.info,  Node: Method Definition Internals,  Next: Generic Function Internals,  Prev: Method Definition,  Up: The Metaobject Protocol

8.11.8 Method Definition Internals
----------------------------------

‘define-method’:

   • checks the form of the first parameter, and applies the following
     steps to the accessor’s setter if it has the ‘(setter ...)’ form

   • interpolates a call to ‘define-generic’ or ‘define-accessor’ if a
     generic function is not already defined with the supplied name

   • calls ‘method’ with the PARAMETERs and BODY, to make a new method
     instance

   • calls ‘add-method!’ to add this method to the relevant generic
     function.

 -- syntax: method (parameter ...) body ...
     Make a method whose specializers are defined by the classes in
     PARAMETERs and whose procedure definition is constructed from the
     PARAMETER symbols and BODY forms.

     The PARAMETER and BODY parameters should be as for ‘define-method’
     (*note define-method: Methods and Generic Functions.).

‘method’:

   • extracts formals and specializing classes from the PARAMETERs,
     defaulting the class for unspecialized parameters to ‘<top>’

   • creates a closure using the formals and the BODY forms

   • calls ‘make’ with metaclass ‘<method>’ and the specializers and
     closure using the ‘#:specializers’ and ‘#:procedure’ keywords.

 -- procedure: make-method specializers procedure
     Make a method using SPECIALIZERS and PROCEDURE.

     SPECIALIZERS should be a list of classes that specifies the
     parameter combinations to which this method will be applicable.

     PROCEDURE should be the closure that will applied to the generic
     function parameters when this method is invoked.

‘make-method’ is a simple wrapper around ‘make’ with metaclass
‘<method>’.

 -- generic: add-method! target method
     Generic function for adding method METHOD to TARGET.

 -- method: add-method! (generic <generic>) (method <method>)
     Add method METHOD to the generic function GENERIC.

 -- method: add-method! (proc <procedure>) (method <method>)
     If PROC is a procedure with generic capability (*note
     generic-capability?: Extending Primitives.), upgrade it to a
     primitive generic and add METHOD to its generic function
     definition.

 -- method: add-method! (pg <primitive-generic>) (method <method>)
     Add method METHOD to the generic function definition of PG.

     Implementation: ‘(add-method! (primitive-generic-generic pg)
     method)’.

 -- method: add-method! (whatever <top>) (method <method>)
     Raise an error indicating that WHATEVER is not a valid generic
     function.

File: guile.info,  Node: Generic Function Internals,  Next: Generic Function Invocation,  Prev: Method Definition Internals,  Up: The Metaobject Protocol

8.11.9 Generic Function Internals
---------------------------------

‘define-generic’ calls ‘ensure-generic’ to upgrade a pre-existing
procedure value, or ‘make’ with metaclass ‘<generic>’ to create a new
generic function.

   ‘define-accessor’ calls ‘ensure-accessor’ to upgrade a pre-existing
procedure value, or ‘make-accessor’ to create a new accessor.

 -- procedure: ensure-generic old-definition [name]
     Return a generic function with name NAME, if possible by using or
     upgrading OLD-DEFINITION.  If unspecified, NAME defaults to ‘#f’.

     If OLD-DEFINITION is already a generic function, it is returned
     unchanged.

     If OLD-DEFINITION is a Scheme procedure or procedure-with-setter,
     ‘ensure-generic’ returns a new generic function that uses
     OLD-DEFINITION for its default procedure and setter.

     Otherwise ‘ensure-generic’ returns a new generic function with no
     defaults and no methods.

 -- procedure: make-generic [name]
     Return a new generic function with name ‘(car NAME)’.  If
     unspecified, NAME defaults to ‘#f’.

   ‘ensure-generic’ calls ‘make’ with metaclasses ‘<generic>’ and
‘<generic-with-setter>’, depending on the previous value of the variable
that it is trying to upgrade.

   ‘make-generic’ is a simple wrapper for ‘make’ with metaclass
‘<generic>’.

 -- procedure: ensure-accessor proc [name]
     Return an accessor with name NAME, if possible by using or
     upgrading PROC.  If unspecified, NAME defaults to ‘#f’.

     If PROC is already an accessor, it is returned unchanged.

     If PROC is a Scheme procedure, procedure-with-setter or generic
     function, ‘ensure-accessor’ returns an accessor that reuses the
     reusable elements of PROC.

     Otherwise ‘ensure-accessor’ returns a new accessor with no defaults
     and no methods.

 -- procedure: make-accessor [name]
     Return a new accessor with name ‘(car NAME)’.  If unspecified, NAME
     defaults to ‘#f’.

   ‘ensure-accessor’ calls ‘make’ with metaclass
‘<generic-with-setter>’, as well as calls to ‘ensure-generic’,
‘make-accessor’ and (tail recursively) ‘ensure-accessor’.

   ‘make-accessor’ calls ‘make’ twice, first with metaclass ‘<generic>’
to create a generic function for the setter, then with metaclass
‘<generic-with-setter>’ to create the accessor, passing the setter
generic function as the value of the ‘#:setter’ keyword.

File: guile.info,  Node: Generic Function Invocation,  Prev: Generic Function Internals,  Up: The Metaobject Protocol

8.11.10 Generic Function Invocation
-----------------------------------

There is a detailed and customizable protocol involved in the process of
invoking a generic function — i.e., in the process of deciding which of
the generic function’s methods are applicable to the current arguments,
and which one of those to apply.  Here is a summary diagram of the
generic functions involved.

‘apply-generic’ (generic)

   • ‘no-method’ (generic)

   • ‘compute-applicable-methods’ (generic)

   • ‘sort-applicable-methods’ (generic)

        • ‘method-more-specific?’ (generic)

   • ‘apply-methods’ (generic)

        • ‘apply-method’ (generic)

        • ‘no-next-method’ (generic)

   • ‘no-applicable-method’

   We do not yet have full documentation for these.  Please refer to the
code (‘oop/goops.scm’) for details.

File: guile.info,  Node: Redefining a Class,  Next: Changing the Class of an Instance,  Prev: The Metaobject Protocol,  Up: GOOPS

