9.3 A Virtual Machine for Guile
===============================

Guile has both an interpreter and a compiler.  To a user, the difference
is transparent—interpreted and compiled procedures can call each other
as they please.

   The difference is that the compiler creates and interprets bytecode
for a custom virtual machine, instead of interpreting the S-expressions
directly.  Loading and running compiled code is faster than loading and
running source code.

   The virtual machine that does the bytecode interpretation is a part
of Guile itself.  This section describes the nature of Guile’s virtual
machine.

* Menu:

* Why a VM?::                   
* VM Concepts::                 
* Stack Layout::                
* Variables and the VM::                   
* VM Programs::         
* Instruction Set::

File: guile.info,  Node: Why a VM?,  Next: VM Concepts,  Up: A Virtual Machine for Guile

9.3.1 Why a VM?
---------------

For a long time, Guile only had an interpreter.  Guile’s interpreter
operated directly on the S-expression representation of Scheme source
code.

   But while the interpreter was highly optimized and hand-tuned, it
still performs many needless computations during the course of
evaluating an expression.  For example, application of a function to
arguments needlessly consed up the arguments in a list.  Evaluation of
an expression always had to figure out what the car of the expression is
– a procedure, a memoized form, or something else.  All values have to
be allocated on the heap.  Et cetera.

   The solution to this problem was to compile the higher-level
language, Scheme, into a lower-level language for which all of the
checks and dispatching have already been done—the code is instead
stripped to the bare minimum needed to “do the job”.

   The question becomes then, what low-level language to choose?  There
are many options.  We could compile to native code directly, but that
poses portability problems for Guile, as it is a highly cross-platform
project.

   So we want the performance gains that compilation provides, but we
also want to maintain the portability benefits of a single code path.
The obvious solution is to compile to a virtual machine that is present
on all Guile installations.

   The easiest (and most fun) way to depend on a virtual machine is to
implement the virtual machine within Guile itself.  This way the virtual
machine provides what Scheme needs (tail calls, multiple values,
‘call/cc’) and can provide optimized inline instructions for Guile
(‘cons’, ‘struct-ref’, etc.).

   So this is what Guile does.  The rest of this section describes that
VM that Guile implements, and the compiled procedures that run on it.

   Before moving on, though, we should note that though we spoke of the
interpreter in the past tense, Guile still has an interpreter.  The
difference is that before, it was Guile’s main evaluator, and so was
implemented in highly optimized C; now, it is actually implemented in
Scheme, and compiled down to VM bytecode, just like any other program.
(There is still a C interpreter around, used to bootstrap the compiler,
but it is not normally used at runtime.)

   The upside of implementing the interpreter in Scheme is that we
preserve tail calls and multiple-value handling between interpreted and
compiled code.  The downside is that the interpreter in Guile 2.0 is
slower than the interpreter in 1.8.  We hope the that the compiler’s
speed makes up for the loss!

   Also note that this decision to implement a bytecode compiler does
not preclude native compilation.  We can compile from bytecode to native
code at runtime, or even do ahead of time compilation.  More
possibilities are discussed in *note Extending the Compiler::.

File: guile.info,  Node: VM Concepts,  Next: Stack Layout,  Prev: Why a VM?,  Up: A Virtual Machine for Guile

9.3.2 VM Concepts
-----------------

Compiled code is run by a virtual machine (VM). Each thread has its own
VM. When a compiled procedure is run, Guile looks up the virtual machine
for the current thread and executes the procedure using that VM.

   Guile’s virtual machine is a stack machine—that is, it has few
registers, and the instructions defined in the VM operate by pushing and
popping values from a stack.

   Stack memory is exclusive to the virtual machine that owns it.  In
addition to their stacks, virtual machines also have access to the
global memory (modules, global bindings, etc) that is shared among other
parts of Guile, including other VMs.

   A VM has generic instructions, such as those to reference local
variables, and instructions designed to support Guile’s languages –
mathematical instructions that support the entire numerical tower, an
inlined implementation of ‘cons’, etc.

   The registers that a VM has are as follows:

   • ip - Instruction pointer
   • sp - Stack pointer
   • fp - Frame pointer

   In other architectures, the instruction pointer is sometimes called
the “program counter” (pc).  This set of registers is pretty typical for
stack machines; their exact meanings in the context of Guile’s VM are
described in the next section.

File: guile.info,  Node: Stack Layout,  Next: Variables and the VM,  Prev: VM Concepts,  Up: A Virtual Machine for Guile

9.3.3 Stack Layout
------------------

While not strictly necessary to understand how to work with the VM, it
is instructive and sometimes entertaining to consider the structure of
the VM stack.

   Logically speaking, a VM stack is composed of “frames”.  Each frame
corresponds to the application of one compiled procedure, and contains
storage space for arguments, local variables, intermediate values, and
some bookkeeping information (such as what to do after the frame
computes its value).

   While the compiler is free to do whatever it wants to, as long as the
semantics of a computation are preserved, in practice every time you
call a function, a new frame is created.  (The notable exception of
course is the tail call case, *note Tail Calls::.)

   Within a frame, you have the data associated with the function
application itself, which is of a fixed size, and the stack space for
intermediate values.  Sometimes only the former is referred to as the
“frame”, and the latter is the “stack”, although all pending application
frames can have some intermediate computations interleaved on the stack.

   The structure of the fixed part of an application frame is as
follows:

                  Stack
        | ...              |
        | Intermed. val. 0 | <- fp + bp->nargs + bp->nlocs = SCM_FRAME_UPPER_ADDRESS (fp)
        +==================+
        | Local variable 1 |
        | Local variable 0 | <- fp + bp->nargs
        | Argument 1       |
        | Argument 0       | <- fp
        | Program          | <- fp - 1
        +------------------+
        | Return address   |
        | MV return address|
        | Dynamic link     | <- fp - 4 = SCM_FRAME_DATA_ADDRESS (fp) = SCM_FRAME_LOWER_ADDRESS (fp)
        +==================+
        |                  |

   In the above drawing, the stack grows upward.  The intermediate
values stored in the application of this frame are stored above
‘SCM_FRAME_UPPER_ADDRESS (fp)’.  ‘bp’ refers to the ‘struct scm_objcode’
data associated with the program at ‘fp - 1’.  ‘nargs’ and ‘nlocs’ are
properties of the compiled procedure, which will be discussed later.

   The individual fields of the frame are as follows:

Return address
     The ‘ip’ that was in effect before this program was applied.  When
     we return from this activation frame, we will jump back to this
     ‘ip’.

MV return address
     The ‘ip’ to return to if this application returns multiple values.
     For continuations that only accept one value, this value will be
     ‘NULL’; for others, it will be an ‘ip’ that points to a
     multiple-value return address in the calling code.  That code will
     expect the top value on the stack to be an integer—the number of
     values being returned—and that below that integer there are the
     values being returned.

Dynamic link
     This is the ‘fp’ in effect before this program was applied.  In
     effect, this and the return address are the registers that are
     always “saved”.  The dynamic link links the current frame to the
     previous frame; computing a stack trace involves traversing these
     frames.

Local variable N
     Lambda-local variables that are all allocated as part of the frame.
     This makes access to variables very cheap.

Argument N
     The calling convention of the VM requires arguments of a function
     application to be pushed on the stack, and here they are.
     References to arguments dispatch to these locations on the stack.

Program
     This is the program being applied.  For more information on how
     programs are implemented, *Note VM Programs::.

File: guile.info,  Node: Variables and the VM,  Next: VM Programs,  Prev: Stack Layout,  Up: A Virtual Machine for Guile

9.3.4 Variables and the VM
--------------------------

Consider the following Scheme code as an example:

       (define (foo a)
         (lambda (b) (list foo a b)))

   Within the lambda expression, ‘foo’ is a top-level variable, ‘a’ is a
lexically captured variable, and ‘b’ is a local variable.

   Another way to refer to ‘a’ and ‘b’ is to say that ‘a’ is a “free”
variable, since it is not defined within the lambda, and ‘b’ is a
“bound” variable.  These are the terms used in the “lambda calculus”, a
mathematical notation for describing functions.  The lambda calculus is
useful because it allows one to prove statements about functions.  It is
especially good at describing scope relations, and it is for that reason
that we mention it here.

   Guile allocates all variables on the stack.  When a lexically
enclosed procedure with free variables—a “closure”—is created, it copies
those variables into its free variable vector.  References to free
variables are then redirected through the free variable vector.

   If a variable is ever ‘set!’, however, it will need to be
heap-allocated instead of stack-allocated, so that different closures
that capture the same variable can see the same value.  Also, this
allows continuations to capture a reference to the variable, instead of
to its value at one point in time.  For these reasons, ‘set!’ variables
are allocated in “boxes”—actually, in variable cells.  *Note
Variables::, for more information.  References to ‘set!’ variables are
indirected through the boxes.

   Thus perhaps counterintuitively, what would seem “closer to the
metal”, viz ‘set!’, actually forces an extra memory allocation and
indirection.

   Going back to our example, ‘b’ may be allocated on the stack, as it
is never mutated.

   ‘a’ may also be allocated on the stack, as it too is never mutated.
Within the enclosed lambda, its value will be copied into (and
referenced from) the free variables vector.

   ‘foo’ is a top-level variable, because ‘foo’ is not lexically bound
in this example.

File: guile.info,  Node: VM Programs,  Next: Instruction Set,  Prev: Variables and the VM,  Up: A Virtual Machine for Guile

9.3.5 Compiled Procedures are VM Programs
-----------------------------------------

By default, when you enter in expressions at Guile’s REPL, they are
first compiled to VM object code, then that VM object code is executed
to produce a value.  If the expression evaluates to a procedure, the
result of this process is a compiled procedure.

   A compiled procedure is a compound object, consisting of its
bytecode, a reference to any captured lexical variables, an object
array, and some metadata such as the procedure’s arity, name, and
documentation.  You can pick apart these pieces with the accessors in
‘(system vm program)’.  *Note Compiled Procedures::, for a full API
reference.

   The object array of a compiled procedure, also known as the “object
table”, holds all Scheme objects whose values are known not to change
across invocations of the procedure: constant strings, symbols, etc.
The object table of a program is initialized right before a program is
loaded with ‘load-program’.  *Note Loading Instructions::, for more
information.

   Variable objects are one such type of constant object: when a global
binding is defined, a variable object is associated to it and that
object will remain constant over time, even if the value bound to it
changes.  Therefore, toplevel bindings only need to be looked up once.
Thereafter, references to the corresponding toplevel variables from
within the program are then performed via the ‘toplevel-ref’
instruction, which uses the object vector, and are almost as fast as
local variable references.

   We can see how these concepts tie together by disassembling the ‘foo’
function we defined earlier to see what is going on:

     scheme@(guile-user)> (define (foo a) (lambda (b) (list foo a b)))
     scheme@(guile-user)> ,x foo
        0    (assert-nargs-ee/locals 1)
        2    (object-ref 1)                  ;; #<procedure 8ebec20 at <current input>:0:17 (b)>
        4    (local-ref 0)                   ;; `a'
        6    (make-closure 0 1)
        9    (return)

     ----------------------------------------
     Disassembly of #<procedure 8ebec20 at <current input>:0:17 (b)>:

        0    (assert-nargs-ee/locals 1)
        2    (toplevel-ref 1)                ;; `foo'
        4    (free-ref 0)                    ;; (closure variable)
        6    (local-ref 0)                   ;; `b'
        8    (list 0 3)                      ;; 3 elements         at (unknown file):0:29
       11    (return)

   First there’s some prelude, where ‘foo’ checks that it was called
with only 1 argument.  Then at ‘ip’ 2, we load up the compiled lambda.
‘Ip’ 4 loads up ‘a’, so that it can be captured into a closure by at
‘ip’ 6—binding code (from the compiled lambda) with data (the
free-variable vector).  Finally we return the closure.

   The second stanza disassembles the compiled lambda.  After the
prelude, we note that toplevel variables are resolved relative to the
module that was current when the procedure was created.  This lookup
occurs lazily, at the first time the variable is actually referenced,
and the location of the lookup is cached so that future references are
very cheap.  *Note Top-Level Environment Instructions::, for more
details.

   Then we see a reference to a free variable, corresponding to ‘a’.
The disassembler doesn’t have enough information to give a name to that
variable, so it just marks it as being a “closure variable”.  Finally we
see the reference to ‘b’, then the ‘list’ opcode, an inline
implementation of the ‘list’ scheme routine.

File: guile.info,  Node: Instruction Set,  Prev: VM Programs,  Up: A Virtual Machine for Guile

9.3.6 Instruction Set
---------------------

There are about 180 instructions in Guile’s virtual machine.  These
instructions represent atomic units of a program’s execution.  Ideally,
they perform one task without conditional branches, then dispatch to the
next instruction in the stream.

   Instructions themselves are one byte long.  Some instructions take
parameters, which follow the instruction byte in the instruction stream.

   Sometimes the compiler can figure out that it is compiling a special
case that can be run more efficiently.  So, for example, while Guile
offers a generic test-and-branch instruction, it also offers specific
instructions for special cases, so that the following cases all have
their own test-and-branch instructions:

     (if pred then else)
     (if (not pred) then else)
     (if (null? l) then else)
     (if (not (null? l)) then else)

   In addition, some Scheme primitives have their own inline
implementations, e.g. ‘cons’, and ‘list’, as we saw in the previous
section.

   So Guile’s instruction set is a _complete_ instruction set, in that
it provides the instructions that are suited to the problem, and is not
concerned with making a minimal, orthogonal set of instructions.  More
instructions may be added over time.

* Menu:

* Lexical Environment Instructions::  
* Top-Level Environment Instructions::  
* Procedure Call and Return Instructions::  
* Function Prologue Instructions::  
* Trampoline Instructions::  
* Branch Instructions::         
* Data Constructor Instructions::   
* Loading Instructions::  
* Dynamic Environment Instructions::  
* Miscellaneous Instructions::  
* Inlined Scheme Instructions::  
* Inlined Mathematical Instructions::  
* Inlined Bytevector Instructions::  

File: guile.info,  Node: Lexical Environment Instructions,  Next: Top-Level Environment Instructions,  Up: Instruction Set

9.3.6.1 Lexical Environment Instructions
........................................

These instructions access and mutate the lexical environment of a
compiled procedure—its free and bound variables.

   Some of these instructions have ‘long-’ variants, the difference
being that they take 16-bit arguments, encoded in big-endianness,
instead of the normal 8-bit range.

   *Note Stack Layout::, for more information on the format of stack
frames.

 -- Instruction: local-ref index
 -- Instruction: long-local-ref index
     Push onto the stack the value of the local variable located at
     INDEX within the current stack frame.

     Note that arguments and local variables are all in one block.  Thus
     the first argument, if any, is at index 0, and local bindings
     follow the arguments.

 -- Instruction: local-set index
 -- Instruction: long-local-set index
     Pop the Scheme object located on top of the stack and make it the
     new value of the local variable located at INDEX within the current
     stack frame.

 -- Instruction: box index
     Pop a value off the stack, and set the INDEXnth local variable to a
     box containing that value.  A shortcut for ‘make-variable’ then
     ‘local-set’, used when binding boxed variables.

 -- Instruction: empty-box index
     Set the INDEXth local variable to a box containing a variable whose
     value is unbound.  Used when compiling some ‘letrec’ expressions.

 -- Instruction: local-boxed-ref index
 -- Instruction: local-boxed-set index
     Get or set the value of the variable located at INDEX within the
     current stack frame.  A shortcut for ‘local-ref’ then
     ‘variable-ref’ or ‘variable-set’, respectively.

 -- Instruction: free-ref index
     Push the value of the captured variable located at position INDEX
     within the program’s vector of captured variables.

 -- Instruction: free-boxed-ref index
 -- Instruction: free-boxed-set index
     Get or set a boxed free variable.  A shortcut for ‘free-ref’ then
     ‘variable-ref’ or ‘variable-set’, respectively.

     Note that there is no ‘free-set’ instruction, as variables that are
     ‘set!’ must be boxed.

 -- Instruction: make-closure num-free-vars
     Pop NUM-FREE-VARS values and a program object off the stack in that
     order, and push a new program object closing over the given free
     variables.  NUM-FREE-VARS is encoded as a two-byte big-endian
     value.

     The free variables are stored in an array, inline to the new
     program object, in the order that they were on the stack (not the
     order they are popped off).  The new closure shares state with the
     original program.  At the time of this writing, the space overhead
     of closures is 3 words, plus one word for each free variable.

 -- Instruction: fix-closure index
     Fix up the free variables array of the closure stored in the
     INDEXth local variable.  INDEX is a two-byte big-endian integer.

     This instruction will pop as many values from the stack as are in
     the corresponding closure’s free variables array.  The topmost
     value on the stack will be stored as the closure’s last free
     variable, with other values filling in free variable slots in
     order.

     ‘fix-closure’ is part of a hack for allocating mutually recursive
     procedures.  The hack is to store the procedures in their
     corresponding local variable slots, with space already allocated
     for free variables.  Then once they are all in place, this
     instruction fixes up their procedures’ free variable bindings in
     place.  This allows most ‘letrec’-bound procedures to be allocated
     unboxed on the stack.

 -- Instruction: local-bound? index
 -- Instruction: long-local-bound? index
     Push ‘#t’ on the stack if the ‘index’th local variable has been
     assigned, or ‘#f’ otherwise.  Mostly useful for handling optional
     arguments in procedure prologues.

File: guile.info,  Node: Top-Level Environment Instructions,  Next: Procedure Call and Return Instructions,  Prev: Lexical Environment Instructions,  Up: Instruction Set

9.3.6.2 Top-Level Environment Instructions
..........................................

These instructions access values in the top-level environment: bindings
that were not lexically apparent at the time that the code in question
was compiled.

   The location in which a toplevel binding is stored can be looked up
once and cached for later.  The binding itself may change over time, but
its location will stay constant.

   Currently only toplevel references within procedures are cached, as
only procedures have a place to cache them, in their object tables.

 -- Instruction: toplevel-ref index
 -- Instruction: long-toplevel-ref index
     Push the value of the toplevel binding whose location is stored in
     at position INDEX in the current procedure’s object table.  The
     ‘long-’ variant encodes the index over two bytes.

     Initially, a cell in a procedure’s object table that is used by
     ‘toplevel-ref’ is initialized to one of two forms.  The normal case
     is that the cell holds a symbol, whose binding will be looked up
     relative to the module that was current when the current program
     was created.

     Alternately, the lookup may be performed relative to a particular
     module, determined at compile-time (e.g. via ‘@’ or ‘@@’).  In that
     case, the cell in the object table holds a list: ‘(MODNAME SYM
     PUBLIC?)’.  The symbol SYM will be looked up in the module named
     MODNAME (a list of symbols).  The lookup will be performed against
     the module’s public interface, unless PUBLIC? is ‘#f’, which it is
     for example when compiling ‘@@’.

     In any case, if the symbol is unbound, an error is signalled.
     Otherwise the initial form is replaced with the looked-up variable,
     an in-place mutation of the object table.  This mechanism provides
     for lazy variable resolution, and an important cached fast-path
     once the variable has been successfully resolved.

     This instruction pushes the value of the variable onto the stack.

 -- Instruction: toplevel-set index
 -- Instruction: long-toplevel-set index
     Pop a value off the stack, and set it as the value of the toplevel
     variable stored at INDEX in the object table.  If the variable has
     not yet been looked up, we do the lookup as in ‘toplevel-ref’.

 -- Instruction: define
     Pop a symbol and a value from the stack, in that order.  Look up
     its binding in the current toplevel environment, creating the
     binding if necessary.  Set the variable to the value.

 -- Instruction: link-now
     Pop a value, X, from the stack.  Look up the binding for X,
     according to the rules for ‘toplevel-ref’, and push that variable
     on the stack.  If the lookup fails, an error will be signalled.

     This instruction is mostly used when loading programs, because it
     can do toplevel variable lookups without an object table.

 -- Instruction: variable-ref
     Dereference the variable object which is on top of the stack and
     replace it by the value of the variable it represents.

 -- Instruction: variable-set
     Pop off two objects from the stack, a variable and a value, and set
     the variable to the value.

 -- Instruction: variable-bound?
     Pop off the variable object from top of the stack and push ‘#t’ if
     it is bound, or ‘#f’ otherwise.  Mostly useful in procedure
     prologues for defining default values for boxed optional variables.

 -- Instruction: make-variable
     Replace the top object on the stack with a variable containing it.
     Used in some circumstances when compiling ‘letrec’ expressions.

File: guile.info,  Node: Procedure Call and Return Instructions,  Next: Function Prologue Instructions,  Prev: Top-Level Environment Instructions,  Up: Instruction Set

9.3.6.3 Procedure Call and Return Instructions
..............................................

 -- Instruction: new-frame
     Push a new frame on the stack, reserving space for the dynamic
     link, return address, and the multiple-values return address.  The
     frame pointer is not yet updated, because the frame is not yet
     active – it has to be patched by a ‘call’ instruction to get the
     return address.

 -- Instruction: call nargs
     Call the procedure located at ‘sp[-nargs]’ with the NARGS arguments
     located from ‘sp[-nargs + 1]’ to ‘sp[0]’.

     This instruction requires that a new frame be pushed on the stack
     before the procedure, via ‘new-frame’.  *Note Stack Layout::, for
     more information.  It patches up that frame with the current ‘ip’
     as the return address, then dispatches to the first instruction in
     the called procedure, relying on the called procedure to return one
     value to the newly-created continuation.  Because the new frame
     pointer will point to ‘sp[-nargs + 1]’, the arguments don’t have to
     be shuffled around – they are already in place.

 -- Instruction: tail-call nargs
     Transfer control to the procedure located at ‘sp[-nargs]’ with the
     NARGS arguments located from ‘sp[-nargs + 1]’ to ‘sp[0]’.

     Unlike ‘call’, which requires a new frame to be pushed onto the
     stack, ‘tail-call’ simply shuffles down the procedure and arguments
     to the current stack frame.  This instruction implements tail calls
     as required by RnRS.

 -- Instruction: apply nargs
 -- Instruction: tail-apply nargs
     Like ‘call’ and ‘tail-call’, except that the top item on the stack
     must be a list.  The elements of that list are then pushed on the
     stack and treated as additional arguments, replacing the list
     itself, then the procedure is invoked as usual.

 -- Instruction: call/nargs
 -- Instruction: tail-call/nargs
     These are like ‘call’ and ‘tail-call’, except they take the number
     of arguments from the stack instead of the instruction stream.
     These instructions are used in the implementation of multiple value
     returns, where the actual number of values is pushed on the stack.

 -- Instruction: mv-call nargs offset
     Like ‘call’, except that a multiple-value continuation is created
     in addition to a single-value continuation.

     The offset (a three-byte value) is an offset within the instruction
     stream; the multiple-value return address in the new frame (*note
     Stack Layout::) will be set to the normal return address plus this
     offset.  Instructions at that offset will expect the top value of
     the stack to be the number of values, and below that values
     themselves, pushed separately.

 -- Instruction: return
     Free the program’s frame, returning the top value from the stack to
     the current continuation.  (The stack should have exactly one value
     on it.)

     Specifically, the ‘sp’ is decremented to one below the current
     ‘fp’, the ‘ip’ is reset to the current return address, the ‘fp’ is
     reset to the value of the current dynamic link, and then the
     returned value is pushed on the stack.

 -- Instruction: return/values nvalues
 -- Instruction: return/nvalues
     Return the top NVALUES to the current continuation.  In the case of
     ‘return/nvalues’, NVALUES itself is first popped from the top of
     the stack.

     If the current continuation is a multiple-value continuation,
     ‘return/values’ pushes the number of values on the stack, then
     returns as in ‘return’, but to the multiple-value return address.

     Otherwise if the current continuation accepts only one value, i.e.
     the multiple-value return address is ‘NULL’, then we assume the
     user only wants one value, and we give them the first one.  If
     there are no values, an error is signaled.

 -- Instruction: return/values* nvalues
     Like a combination of ‘apply’ and ‘return/values’, in which the top
     value on the stack is interpreted as a list of additional values.
     This is an optimization for the common ‘(apply values ...)’ case.

 -- Instruction: truncate-values nbinds nrest
     Used in multiple-value continuations, this instruction takes the
     values that are on the stack (including the number-of-values
     marker) and truncates them for a binding construct.

     For example, a call to ‘(receive (x y . z) (foo) ...)’ would,
     logically speaking, pop off the values returned from ‘(foo)’ and
     push them as three values, corresponding to ‘x’, ‘y’, and ‘z’.  In
     that case, NBINDS would be 3, and NREST would be 1 (to indicate
     that one of the bindings was a rest argument).

     Signals an error if there is an insufficient number of values.

 -- Instruction: call/cc
 -- Instruction: tail-call/cc
     Capture the current continuation, and then call (or tail-call) the
     procedure on the top of the stack, with the continuation as the
     argument.

     ‘call/cc’ does not require a ‘new-frame’ to be pushed on the stack,
     as ‘call’ does, because it needs to capture the stack before the
     frame is pushed.

     Both the VM continuation and the C continuation are captured.

File: guile.info,  Node: Function Prologue Instructions,  Next: Trampoline Instructions,  Prev: Procedure Call and Return Instructions,  Up: Instruction Set

9.3.6.4 Function Prologue Instructions
......................................

A function call in Guile is very cheap: the VM simply hands control to
the procedure.  The procedure itself is responsible for asserting that
it has been passed an appropriate number of arguments.  This strategy
allows arbitrarily complex argument parsing idioms to be developed,
without harming the common case.

   For example, only calls to keyword-argument procedures “pay” for the
cost of parsing keyword arguments.  (At the time of this writing,
calling procedures with keyword arguments is typically two to four times
as costly as calling procedures with a fixed set of arguments.)

 -- Instruction: assert-nargs-ee n
 -- Instruction: assert-nargs-ge n
     Assert that the current procedure has been passed exactly N
     arguments, for the ‘-ee’ case, or N or more arguments, for the
     ‘-ge’ case.  N is encoded over two bytes.

     The number of arguments is determined by subtracting the frame
     pointer from the stack pointer (‘sp - (fp -1)’).  *Note Stack
     Layout::, for more details on stack frames.

 -- Instruction: br-if-nargs-ne n offset
 -- Instruction: br-if-nargs-gt n offset
 -- Instruction: br-if-nargs-lt n offset
     Jump to OFFSET if the number of arguments is not equal to, greater
     than, or less than N.  N is encoded over two bytes, and OFFSET has
     the normal three-byte encoding.

     These instructions are used to implement multiple arities, as in
     ‘case-lambda’.  *Note Case-lambda::, for more information.

 -- Instruction: bind-optionals n
     If the procedure has been called with fewer than N arguments, fill
     in the remaining arguments with an unbound value (‘SCM_UNDEFINED’).
     N is encoded over two bytes.

     The optionals can be later initialized conditionally via the
     ‘local-bound?’ instruction.

 -- Instruction: push-rest n
     Pop off excess arguments (more than N), collecting them into a
     list, and push that list.  Used to bind a rest argument, if the
     procedure has no keyword arguments.  Procedures with keyword
     arguments use ‘bind-rest’ instead.

 -- Instruction: bind-rest n idx
     Pop off excess arguments (more than N), collecting them into a
     list.  The list is then assigned to the IDXth local variable.

 -- Instruction: bind-optionals/shuffle nreq nreq-and-opt ntotal
 -- Instruction: bind-optionals/shuffle-or-br nreq nreq-and-opt ntotal
          offset
     Shuffle keyword arguments to the top of the stack, filling in the
     holes with ‘SCM_UNDEFINED’.  Each argument is encoded over two
     bytes.

     This instruction is used by procedures with keyword arguments.
     NREQ is the number of required arguments to the procedure, and
     NREQ-AND-OPT is the total number of positional arguments (required
     plus optional).  ‘bind-optionals/shuffle’ will scan the stack from
     the NREQth argument up to the NREQ-AND-OPTth, and start shuffling
     when it sees the first keyword argument or runs out of positional
     arguments.

     ‘bind-optionals/shuffle-or-br’ does the same, except that it checks
     if there are too many positional arguments before shuffling.  If
     this is the case, it jumps to OFFSET, encoded using the normal
     three-byte encoding.

     Shuffling simply moves the keyword arguments past the total number
     of arguments, NTOTAL, which includes keyword and rest arguments.
     The free slots created by the shuffle are filled in with
     ‘SCM_UNDEFINED’, so they may be conditionally initialized later in
     the function’s prologue.

 -- Instruction: bind-kwargs idx ntotal flags
     Parse keyword arguments, assigning their values to the
     corresponding local variables.  The keyword arguments should
     already have been shuffled above the NTOTALth stack slot by
     ‘bind-optionals/shuffle’.

     The parsing is driven by a keyword arguments association list,
     looked up from the IDXth element of the procedures object array.
     The alist is a list of pairs of the form ‘(KW . INDEX)’, mapping
     keyword arguments to their local variable indices.

     There are two bitflags that affect the parser, ‘allow-other-keys?’
     (‘0x1’) and ‘rest?’ (‘0x2’).  Unless ‘allow-other-keys?’ is set,
     the parser will signal an error if an unknown key is found.  If
     ‘rest?’ is set, errors parsing the keyword arguments will be
     ignored, as a later ‘bind-rest’ instruction will collect all of the
     tail arguments, including the keywords, into a list.  Otherwise if
     the keyword arguments are invalid, an error is signalled.

     IDX and NTOTAL are encoded over two bytes each, and FLAGS is
     encoded over one byte.

 -- Instruction: reserve-locals n
     Resets the stack pointer to have space for N local variables,
     including the arguments.  If this operation increments the stack
     pointer, as in a push, the new slots are filled with ‘SCM_UNBOUND’.
     If this operation decrements the stack pointer, any excess values
     are dropped.

     ‘reserve-locals’ is typically used after argument parsing to
     reserve space for local variables.

 -- Instruction: assert-nargs-ee/locals n
 -- Instruction: assert-nargs-ge/locals n
     A combination of ‘assert-nargs-ee’ and ‘reserve-locals’.  The
     number of arguments is encoded in the lower three bits of N, a
     one-byte value.  The number of additional local variables is take
     from the upper 5 bits of N.

File: guile.info,  Node: Trampoline Instructions,  Next: Branch Instructions,  Prev: Function Prologue Instructions,  Up: Instruction Set

9.3.6.5 Trampoline Instructions
...............................

Though most applicable objects in Guile are procedures implemented in
bytecode, not all are.  There are primitives, continuations, and other
procedure-like objects that have their own calling convention.  Instead
of adding special cases to the ‘call’ instruction, Guile wraps these
other applicable objects in VM trampoline procedures, then provides
special support for these objects in bytecode.

   Trampoline procedures are typically generated by Guile at runtime,
for example in response to a call to ‘scm_c_make_gsubr’.  As such, a
compiler probably shouldn’t emit code with these instructions.  However,
it’s still interesting to know how these things work, so we document
these trampoline instructions here.

 -- Instruction: subr-call nargs
     Pop off a foreign pointer (which should have been pushed on by the
     trampoline), and call it directly, with the NARGS arguments from
     the stack.  Return the resulting value or values to the calling
     procedure.

 -- Instruction: foreign-call nargs
     Pop off an internal foreign object (which should have been pushed
     on by the trampoline), and call that foreign function with the
     NARGS arguments from the stack.  Return the resulting value to the
     calling procedure.

 -- Instruction: continuation-call
     Pop off an internal continuation object (which should have been
     pushed on by the trampoline), and reinstate that continuation.  All
     of the procedure’s arguments are passed to the continuation.  Does
     not return.

 -- Instruction: partial-cont-call
     Pop off two objects from the stack: the dynamic winds associated
     with the partial continuation, and the VM continuation object.
     Unroll the continuation onto the stack, rewinding the dynamic
     environment and overwriting the current frame, and pass all
     arguments to the continuation.  Control flow proceeds where the
     continuation was captured.

File: guile.info,  Node: Branch Instructions,  Next: Data Constructor Instructions,  Prev: Trampoline Instructions,  Up: Instruction Set

9.3.6.6 Branch Instructions
...........................

All the conditional branch instructions described below work in the same
way:

   • They pop off Scheme object(s) located on the stack for use in the
     branch condition
   • If the condition is true, then the instruction pointer is increased
     by the offset passed as an argument to the branch instruction;
   • Program execution proceeds with the next instruction (that is, the
     one to which the instruction pointer points).

   Note that the offset passed to the instruction is encoded as three
8-bit integers, in big-endian order, effectively giving Guile a 24-bit
relative address space.

 -- Instruction: br offset
     Jump to OFFSET.  No values are popped.

 -- Instruction: br-if offset
     Jump to OFFSET if the object on the stack is not false.

 -- Instruction: br-if-not offset
     Jump to OFFSET if the object on the stack is false.

 -- Instruction: br-if-eq offset
     Jump to OFFSET if the two objects located on the stack are equal in
     the sense of ‘eq?’.  Note that, for this instruction, the stack
     pointer is decremented by two Scheme objects instead of only one.

 -- Instruction: br-if-not-eq offset
     Same as ‘br-if-eq’ for non-‘eq?’ objects.

 -- Instruction: br-if-null offset
     Jump to OFFSET if the object on the stack is ‘'()’.

 -- Instruction: br-if-not-null offset
     Jump to OFFSET if the object on the stack is not ‘'()’.

File: guile.info,  Node: Data Constructor Instructions,  Next: Loading Instructions,  Prev: Branch Instructions,  Up: Instruction Set

9.3.6.7 Data Constructor Instructions
.....................................

These instructions push simple immediate values onto the stack, or
construct compound data structures from values on the stack.

 -- Instruction: make-int8 value
     Push VALUE, an 8-bit integer, onto the stack.

 -- Instruction: make-int8:0
     Push the immediate value ‘0’ onto the stack.

 -- Instruction: make-int8:1
     Push the immediate value ‘1’ onto the stack.

 -- Instruction: make-int16 value
     Push VALUE, a 16-bit integer, onto the stack.

 -- Instruction: make-uint64 value
     Push VALUE, an unsigned 64-bit integer, onto the stack.  The value
     is encoded in 8 bytes, most significant byte first (big-endian).

 -- Instruction: make-int64 value
     Push VALUE, a signed 64-bit integer, onto the stack.  The value is
     encoded in 8 bytes, most significant byte first (big-endian), in
     twos-complement arithmetic.

 -- Instruction: make-false
     Push ‘#f’ onto the stack.

 -- Instruction: make-true
     Push ‘#t’ onto the stack.

 -- Instruction: make-nil
     Push ‘#nil’ onto the stack.

 -- Instruction: make-eol
     Push ‘'()’ onto the stack.

 -- Instruction: make-char8 value
     Push VALUE, an 8-bit character, onto the stack.

 -- Instruction: make-char32 value
     Push VALUE, an 32-bit character, onto the stack.  The value is
     encoded in big-endian order.

 -- Instruction: make-symbol
     Pops a string off the stack, and pushes a symbol.

 -- Instruction: make-keyword value
     Pops a symbol off the stack, and pushes a keyword.

 -- Instruction: list n
     Pops off the top N values off of the stack, consing them up into a
     list, then pushes that list on the stack.  What was the topmost
     value will be the last element in the list.  N is a two-byte value,
     most significant byte first.

 -- Instruction: vector n
     Create and fill a vector with the top N values from the stack,
     popping off those values and pushing on the resulting vector.  N is
     a two-byte value, like in ‘vector’.

 -- Instruction: make-struct n
     Make a new struct from the top N values on the stack.  The values
     are popped, and the new struct is pushed.

     The deepest value is used as the vtable for the struct, and the
     rest are used in order as the field initializers.  Tail arrays are
     not supported by this instruction.

 -- Instruction: make-array n
     Pop an array shape from the stack, then pop the remaining N values,
     pushing a new array.  N is encoded over three bytes.

     The array shape should be appropriate to store N values.  *Note
     Array Procedures::, for more information on array shapes.

   Many of these data structures are constant, never changing over the
course of the different invocations of the procedure.  In that case it
is often advantageous to make them once when the procedure is created,
and just reference them from the object table thereafter.  *Note
Variables and the VM::, for more information on the object table.

 -- Instruction: object-ref n
 -- Instruction: long-object-ref n
     Push Nth value from the current program’s object vector.  The
     “long” variant has a 16-bit index instead of an 8-bit index.

File: guile.info,  Node: Loading Instructions,  Next: Dynamic Environment Instructions,  Prev: Data Constructor Instructions,  Up: Instruction Set

9.3.6.8 Loading Instructions
............................

In addition to VM instructions, an instruction stream may contain
variable-length data embedded within it.  This data is always preceded
by special loading instructions, which interpret the data and advance
the instruction pointer to the next VM instruction.

   All of these loading instructions have a ‘length’ parameter,
indicating the size of the embedded data, in bytes.  The length itself
is encoded in 3 bytes.

 -- Instruction: load-number length
     Load an arbitrary number from the instruction stream.  The number
     is embedded in the stream as a string.
 -- Instruction: load-string length
     Load a string from the instruction stream.  The string is assumed
     to be encoded in the “latin1” locale.
 -- Instruction: load-wide-string length
     Load a UTF-32 string from the instruction stream.  LENGTH is the
     length in bytes, not in codepoints.
 -- Instruction: load-symbol length
     Load a symbol from the instruction stream.  The symbol is assumed
     to be encoded in the “latin1” locale.  Symbols backed by wide
     strings may be loaded via ‘load-wide-string’ then ‘make-symbol’.
 -- Instruction: load-array length
     Load a uniform array from the instruction stream.  The shape and
     type of the array are popped off the stack, in that order.

 -- Instruction: load-program
     Load bytecode from the instruction stream, and push a compiled
     procedure.

     This instruction pops one value from the stack: the program’s
     object table, as a vector, or ‘#f’ in the case that the program has
     no object table.  A program that does not reference toplevel
     bindings and does not use ‘object-ref’ does not need an object
     table.

     This instruction is unlike the rest of the loading instructions,
     because instead of parsing its data, it directly maps the
     instruction stream onto a C structure, ‘struct scm_objcode’.  *Note
     Bytecode and Objcode::, for more information.

     The resulting compiled procedure will not have any free variables
     captured, so it may be loaded only once but used many times to
     create closures.

File: guile.info,  Node: Dynamic Environment Instructions,  Next: Miscellaneous Instructions,  Prev: Loading Instructions,  Up: Instruction Set

9.3.6.9 Dynamic Environment Instructions
........................................

Guile’s virtual machine has low-level support for ‘dynamic-wind’,
dynamic binding, and composable prompts and aborts.

 -- Instruction: wind
     Pop an unwind thunk and a wind thunk from the stack, in that order,
     and push them onto the “dynamic stack”.  The unwind thunk will be
     called on nonlocal exits, and the wind thunk on reentries.  Used to
     implement ‘dynamic-wind’.

     Note that neither thunk is actually called; the compiler should
     emit calls to wind and unwind for the normal dynamic-wind control
     flow.  *Note Dynamic Wind::.

 -- Instruction: unwind
     Pop off the top entry from the “dynamic stack”, for example, a
     wind/unwind thunk pair.  ‘unwind’ instructions should be properly
     paired with their winding instructions, like ‘wind’.

 -- Instruction: wind-fluids n
     Pop off N values and N fluids from the stack, in that order.  Set
     the fluids to the values by creating a with-fluids object and
     pushing that object on the dynamic stack.  *Note Fluids and Dynamic
     States::.

 -- Instruction: unwind-fluids
     Pop a with-fluids object from the dynamic stack, and swap the
     current values of its fluids with the saved values of its fluids.
     In this way, the dynamic environment is left as it was before the
     corresponding ‘wind-fluids’ instruction was processed.

 -- Instruction: fluid-ref
     Pop a fluid from the stack, and push its current value.

 -- Instruction: fluid-set
     Pop a value and a fluid from the stack, in that order, and set the
     fluid to the value.

 -- Instruction: prompt escape-only? offset
     Establish a dynamic prompt.  *Note Prompts::, for more information
     on prompts.

     The prompt will be pushed on the dynamic stack.  The normal control
     flow should ensure that the prompt is popped off at the end, via
     ‘unwind’.

     If an abort is made to this prompt, control will jump to OFFSET, a
     three-byte relative address.  The continuation and all arguments to
     the abort will be pushed on the stack, along with the total number
     of arguments (including the continuation.  If control returns to
     the handler, the prompt is already popped off by the abort
     mechanism.  (Guile’s ‘prompt’ implements Felleisen’s “–F–”
     operator.)

     If ESCAPE-ONLY? is nonzero, the prompt will be marked as
     escape-only, which allows an abort to this prompt to avoid reifying
     the continuation.

 -- Instruction: abort n
     Abort to a dynamic prompt.

     This instruction pops one tail argument list, N arguments, and a
     prompt tag from the stack.  The dynamic environment is then
     searched for a prompt having the given tag.  If none is found, an
     error is signalled.  Otherwise all arguments are passed to the
     prompt’s handler, along with the captured continuation, if
     necessary.

     If the prompt’s handler can be proven to not reference the captured
     continuation, no continuation is allocated.  This decision happens
     dynamically, at run-time; the general case is that the continuation
     may be captured, and thus resumed.  A reinstated continuation will
     have its arguments pushed on the stack, along with the number of
     arguments, as in the multiple-value return convention.  Therefore
     an ‘abort’ instruction should be followed by code ready to handle
     the equivalent of a multiply-valued return.

File: guile.info,  Node: Miscellaneous Instructions,  Next: Inlined Scheme Instructions,  Prev: Dynamic Environment Instructions,  Up: Instruction Set

9.3.6.10 Miscellaneous Instructions
...................................

 -- Instruction: nop
     Does nothing!  Used for padding other instructions to certain
     alignments.

 -- Instruction: halt
     Exits the VM, returning a SCM value.  Normally, this instruction is
     only part of the “bootstrap program”, a program run when a virtual
     machine is first entered; compiled Scheme procedures will not
     contain this instruction.

     If multiple values have been returned, the SCM value will be a
     multiple-values object (*note Multiple Values::).

 -- Instruction: break
     Does nothing, but invokes the break hook.

 -- Instruction: drop
     Pops off the top value from the stack, throwing it away.

 -- Instruction: dup
     Re-pushes the top value onto the stack.

 -- Instruction: void
     Pushes “the unspecified value” onto the stack.

File: guile.info,  Node: Inlined Scheme Instructions,  Next: Inlined Mathematical Instructions,  Prev: Miscellaneous Instructions,  Up: Instruction Set

9.3.6.11 Inlined Scheme Instructions
....................................

The Scheme compiler can recognize the application of standard Scheme
procedures.  It tries to inline these small operations to avoid the
overhead of creating new stack frames.

   Since most of these operations are historically implemented as C
primitives, not inlining them would entail constantly calling out from
the VM to the interpreter, which has some costs—registers must be saved,
the interpreter has to dispatch, called procedures have to do much type
checking, etc.  It’s much more efficient to inline these operations in
the virtual machine itself.

   All of these instructions pop their arguments from the stack and push
their results, and take no parameters from the instruction stream.
Thus, unlike in the previous sections, these instruction definitions
show stack parameters instead of parameters from the instruction stream.

 -- Instruction: not x
 -- Instruction: not-not x
 -- Instruction: eq? x y
 -- Instruction: not-eq? x y
 -- Instruction: null?
 -- Instruction: not-null?
 -- Instruction: eqv? x y
 -- Instruction: equal? x y
 -- Instruction: pair? x y
 -- Instruction: list? x
 -- Instruction: set-car! pair x
 -- Instruction: set-cdr! pair x
 -- Instruction: cons x y
 -- Instruction: car x
 -- Instruction: cdr x
 -- Instruction: vector-ref x y
 -- Instruction: vector-set x n y
 -- Instruction: struct? x
 -- Instruction: struct-ref x n
 -- Instruction: struct-set x n v
 -- Instruction: struct-vtable x
 -- Instruction: class-of x
 -- Instruction: slot-ref struct n
 -- Instruction: slot-set struct n x
     Inlined implementations of their Scheme equivalents.

   Note that ‘caddr’ and friends compile to a series of ‘car’ and ‘cdr’
instructions.

File: guile.info,  Node: Inlined Mathematical Instructions,  Next: Inlined Bytevector Instructions,  Prev: Inlined Scheme Instructions,  Up: Instruction Set

9.3.6.12 Inlined Mathematical Instructions
..........................................

Inlining mathematical operations has the obvious advantage of handling
fixnums without function calls or allocations.  The trick, of course, is
knowing when the result of an operation will be a fixnum, and there
might be a couple bugs here.

   More instructions could be added here over time.

   As in the previous section, the definitions below show stack
parameters instead of instruction stream parameters.

 -- Instruction: add x y
 -- Instruction: add1 x
 -- Instruction: sub x y
 -- Instruction: sub1 x
 -- Instruction: mul x y
 -- Instruction: div x y
 -- Instruction: quo x y
 -- Instruction: rem x y
 -- Instruction: mod x y
 -- Instruction: ee? x y
 -- Instruction: lt? x y
 -- Instruction: gt? x y
 -- Instruction: le? x y
 -- Instruction: ge? x y
 -- Instruction: ash x n
 -- Instruction: logand x y
 -- Instruction: logior x y
 -- Instruction: logxor x y
     Inlined implementations of the corresponding mathematical
     operations.

File: guile.info,  Node: Inlined Bytevector Instructions,  Prev: Inlined Mathematical Instructions,  Up: Instruction Set

9.3.6.13 Inlined Bytevector Instructions
........................................

Bytevector operations correspond closely to what the current hardware
can do, so it makes sense to inline them to VM instructions, providing a
clear path for eventual native compilation.  Without this, Scheme
programs would need other primitives for accessing raw bytes – but these
primitives are as good as any.

   As in the previous section, the definitions below show stack
parameters instead of instruction stream parameters.

   The multibyte formats (‘u16’, ‘f64’, etc) take an extra endianness
argument.  Only aligned native accesses are currently fast-pathed in
Guile’s VM.

 -- Instruction: bv-u8-ref bv n
 -- Instruction: bv-s8-ref bv n
 -- Instruction: bv-u16-native-ref bv n
 -- Instruction: bv-s16-native-ref bv n
 -- Instruction: bv-u32-native-ref bv n
 -- Instruction: bv-s32-native-ref bv n
 -- Instruction: bv-u64-native-ref bv n
 -- Instruction: bv-s64-native-ref bv n
 -- Instruction: bv-f32-native-ref bv n
 -- Instruction: bv-f64-native-ref bv n
 -- Instruction: bv-u16-ref bv n endianness
 -- Instruction: bv-s16-ref bv n endianness
 -- Instruction: bv-u32-ref bv n endianness
 -- Instruction: bv-s32-ref bv n endianness
 -- Instruction: bv-u64-ref bv n endianness
 -- Instruction: bv-s64-ref bv n endianness
 -- Instruction: bv-f32-ref bv n endianness
 -- Instruction: bv-f64-ref bv n endianness
 -- Instruction: bv-u8-set bv n val
 -- Instruction: bv-s8-set bv n val
 -- Instruction: bv-u16-native-set bv n val
 -- Instruction: bv-s16-native-set bv n val
 -- Instruction: bv-u32-native-set bv n val
 -- Instruction: bv-s32-native-set bv n val
 -- Instruction: bv-u64-native-set bv n val
 -- Instruction: bv-s64-native-set bv n val
 -- Instruction: bv-f32-native-set bv n val
 -- Instruction: bv-f64-native-set bv n val
 -- Instruction: bv-u16-set bv n val endianness
 -- Instruction: bv-s16-set bv n val endianness
 -- Instruction: bv-u32-set bv n val endianness
 -- Instruction: bv-s32-set bv n val endianness
 -- Instruction: bv-u64-set bv n val endianness
 -- Instruction: bv-s64-set bv n val endianness
 -- Instruction: bv-f32-set bv n val endianness
 -- Instruction: bv-f64-set bv n val endianness
     Inlined implementations of the corresponding bytevector operations.

File: guile.info,  Node: Compiling to the Virtual Machine,  Prev: A Virtual Machine for Guile,  Up: Guile Implementation

