4. Use of the SACK option for reporting a duplicate segment

   This section specifies the use of SACK blocks when the SACK option is
   used in reporting a duplicate segment.  When D-SACK is used, the
   first block of the SACK option should be a D-SACK block specifying
   the sequence numbers for the duplicate segment that triggers the
   acknowledgement.  If the duplicate segment is part of a larger block
   of non-contiguous data in the receiver's data queue, then the
   following SACK block should be used to specify this larger block.
   Additional SACK blocks can be used to specify additional non-
   contiguous blocks of data, as specified in RFC 2018.

   The guidelines for reporting duplicate segments are summarized below:

   (1) A D-SACK block is only used to report a duplicate contiguous
   sequence of data received by the receiver in the most recent packet.

   (2) Each duplicate contiguous sequence of data received is reported
   in at most one D-SACK block.  (I.e., the receiver sends two identical
   D-SACK blocks in subsequent packets only if the receiver receives two
   duplicate segments.)

   (3) The left edge of the D-SACK block specifies the first sequence
   number of the duplicate contiguous sequence, and the right edge of
   the D-SACK block specifies the sequence number immediately following
   the last sequence in the duplicate contiguous sequence.

   (4) If the D-SACK block reports a duplicate contiguous sequence from
   a (possibly larger) block of data in the receiver's data queue above
   the cumulative acknowledgement, then the second SACK block in that
   SACK option should specify that (possibly larger) block of data.

   (5) Following the SACK blocks described above for reporting duplicate
   segments, additional SACK blocks can be used for reporting additional
   blocks of data, as specified in RFC 2018.

   Note that because each duplicate segment is reported in only one ACK
   packet, information about that duplicate segment will be lost if that
   ACK packet is dropped in the network.

