5. Detection of Duplicate Packets

   This extension to the SACK option enables the receiver to accurately
   report the reception of duplicate data.  Because each receipt of a
   duplicate packet is reported in only one ACK packet, the loss of a
   single ACK can prevent this information from reaching the sender.  In
   addition, we note that the sender can not necessarily trust the
   receiver to send it accurate information [SCWA99].

   In order for the sender to check that the first (D)SACK block of an
   acknowledgement in fact acknowledges duplicate data, the sender
   should compare the sequence space in the first SACK block to the
   cumulative ACK which is carried IN THE SAME PACKET.  If the SACK
   sequence space is less than this cumulative ACK, it is an indication
   that the segment identified by the SACK block has been received more
   than once by the receiver.  An implementation MUST NOT compare the
   sequence space in the SACK block to the TCP state variable snd.una
   (which carries the total cumulative ACK), as this may result in the
   wrong conclusion if ACK packets are reordered.

   If the sequence space in the first SACK block is greater than the
   cumulative ACK, then the sender next compares the sequence space in
   the first SACK block with the sequence space in the second SACK
   block, if there is one.  This comparison can determine if the first
   SACK block is reporting duplicate data that lies above the cumulative
   ACK.

   TCP implementations which follow RFC 2581 [RFC2581] could see
   duplicate packets in each of the following four situations.  This
   document does not specify what action a TCP implementation should
   take in these cases.  The extension to the SACK option simply enables
   the sender to detect each of these cases.  Note that these four
   conditions are not an exhaustive list of possible cases for duplicate
   packets, but are representative of the most common/likely cases.
   Subsequent documents will describe experimental proposals for sender
   responses to the detection of unnecessary retransmits due to
   reordering, lost ACKS, or early retransmit timeouts.














Floyd, et al.               Standards Track                     [Page 9]

RFC 2883                     SACK Extension                    July 2000


