DESCRIPTION
       Socat  is a command line based utility that establishes two bidirectional byte streams and transfers data between them. Because the streams can be constructed from a large set of
       different types of data sinks and sources (see address types), and because lots of address options may be applied to the streams, socat can be used for many different purposes.

       Filan is a utility that prints information about its active file descriptors to stdout. It has been written for debugging socat, but might be useful for other purposes  too.  Use
       the -h option to find more infos.

       Procan is a utility that prints information about process parameters to stdout. It has been written to better understand some UNIX process properties and for debugging socat, but
       might be useful for other purposes too.

       The life cycle of a socat instance typically consists of four phases.

       In the init phase, the command line options are parsed and logging is initialized.

       During the open phase, socat opens the first address and afterwards the second address. These steps are usually blocking; thus, especially for complex address types  like  socks,
       connection requests or authentication dialogs must be completed before the next step is started.

       In  the  transfer  phase, socat watches both streams' read and write file descriptors via select() , and, when data is available on one side and can be written to the other side,
       socat reads it, performs newline character conversions if required, and writes the data to the write file descriptor of the other stream, then continues waiting for more data  in
       both directions.

       When  one  of  the streams effectively reaches EOF, the closing phase begins. Socat transfers the EOF condition to the other stream, i.e. tries to shutdown only its write stream,
       giving it a chance to terminate gracefully. For a defined time socat continues to transfer data in the other direction, but then closes all remaining channels and terminates.

