ADDRESS SPECIFICATIONS
       With the address command line arguments, the user gives socat instructions and the necessary information for establishing the byte streams.

       An address specification usually consists of an address type keyword, zero or more required address parameters separated by ':' from the keyword and from each other, and zero  or
       more address options separated by ','.

       The  keyword  specifies the address type (e.g., TCP4, OPEN, EXEC). For some keywords there exist synonyms ('-' for STDIO, TCP for TCP4). Keywords are case insensitive.  For a few
       special address types, the keyword may be omitted: Address specifications starting with a number are assumed to be FD (raw file descriptor) addresses; if a '/'  is  found  before
       the first ':' or ',', GOPEN (generic file open) is assumed.

       The  required  number and type of address parameters depend on the address type. E.g., TCP4 requires a server specification (name or address), and a port specification (number or
       service name).

       Zero or more address options may be given with each address. They influence the address in some ways.  Options consist of an option keyword or an option keyword and a value, sep-
       arated  by '='. Option keywords are case insensitive.  For filtering the options that are useful with an address type, each option is member of one option group. For each address
       type there is a set of option groups allowed. Only options belonging to one of these address groups may be used (except with option -g).

       Address specifications following the above schema are also called single address specifications.  Two single addresses can be combined with "!!" to form a dual type  address  for
       one  channel. Here, the first address is used by socat for reading data, and the second address for writing data. There is no way to specify an option only once for being applied
       to both single addresses.

       Usually, addresses are opened in read/write mode. When an address is part of a dual address specification, or when option -u or -U is used, an address  might  be  used  only  for
       reading or for writing. Considering this is important with some address types.

       With socat version 1.5.0 and higher, the lexical analysis tries to handle quotes and parenthesis meaningfully and allows escaping of special characters.  If one of the characters
       ( { [ ' is found, the corresponding closing character - ) } ] ' - is looked for; they may also be nested. Within these constructs, socats special characters and strings  :  ,  !!
       are not handled specially. All those characters and strings can be escaped with \ or within ""

