DATA VALUES
       This section explains the different data types that address parameters and address options can take.

       address-range
              Is currently only implemented for IPv4 and IPv6. See address-option `range'

       bool   "0" or "1"; if value is omitted, "1" is taken.

       byte   An unsigned int number, read with strtoul() , lower or equal to UCHAR_MAX .

       command-line
              A string specifying a program name and its arguments, separated by single spaces.

       data   A raw data specification following dalan syntax. Currently the only valid form is a string starting with 'x' followed by  an  even  number  of  hex  digits,  specifying  a
              sequence of bytes.

       directory
              A string with usual UN*X directory name semantics.

       facility
              The name of a syslog facility in lower case characters.

       fdnum  An unsigned int type, read with strtoul() , specifying a UN*X file descriptor.

       filename
              A string with usual UN*X filename semantics.

       group  If the first character is a decimal digit, the value is read with strtoul() as unsigned integer specifying a group id. Otherwise, it must be an existing group name.

       int    A number following the rules of the strtol() function with base "0", i.e. decimal number, octal number with leading "0", or hexadecimal number with leading "0x". The value
              must fit into a C int.

       interface
              A string specifying the device name of a network interface as shown by ifconfig or procan, e.g. "eth0".

       IP address
              An IPv4 address in numbers-and-dots notation, an IPv6 address in hex notation enclosed in brackets, or a hostname that resolves to an IPv4 or an IPv6 address.
              Examples: 127.0.0.1, [::1], www.dest-unreach.org, dns1

       IPv4 address
              An IPv4 address in numbers-and-dots notation or a hostname that resolves to an IPv4 address.
              Examples: 127.0.0.1, www.dest-unreach.org, dns2

       IPv6 address
              An iPv6 address in hexnumbers-and-colons notation enclosed in brackets, or a hostname that resolves to an IPv6 address.
              Examples: [::1], [1234:5678:9abc:def0:1234:5678:9abc:def0], ip6name.domain.org

       long   A number read with strtol() . The value must fit into a C long.

       long long
              A number read with strtoll() . The value must fit into a C long long.

       off_t  An implementation dependend signed number, usually 32 bits, read with strtol or strtoll.

       off64_t
              An implementation dependend signed number, usually 64 bits, read with strtol or strtoll.

       mode_t An unsigned integer, read with strtoul() , specifying mode (permission) bits.

       pid_t  A number, read with strtol() , specifying a process id.

       port   A uint16_t (16 bit unsigned number) specifying a TCP or UDP port, read with strtoul() .

       protocol
              An unsigned 8 bit number, read with strtoul() .

       size_t An unsigned number with size_t limitations, read with strtoul .

       sockname
              A socket address. See address-option `bind'

       string A sequence of characters, not containing '\0' and, depending on the position within the command line, ':', ',', or "!!". Note that you might  have  to  escape  shell  meta
              characters in the command line.

       TCP service
              A service name, not starting with a digit, that is resolved by getservbyname() , or an unsigned int 16 bit number read with strtoul() .

       timeval
              A double float specifying seconds; the number is mapped into a struct timeval, consisting of seconds and microseconds.

       timespec
              A double float specifying seconds; the number is mapped into a struct timespec, consisting of seconds and nanoseconds.

       UDP service
              A service name, not starting with a digit, that is resolved by getservbyname() , or an unsigned int 16 bit number read with strtoul() .

       unsigned int
              A number read with strtoul() . The value must fit into a C unsigned int.

       user   If the first character is a decimal digit, the value is read with strtoul() as unsigned integer specifying a user id. Otherwise, it must be an existing user name.

