*90.2*	MS-Windows

There are two ways to install the Vim program for Microsoft Windows.  You can
uncompress several archives, or use a self-installing big archive.  Most users
with fairly recent computers will prefer the second method.  For the first
one, you will need:

	- An archive with binaries for Vim.
	- The Vim runtime archive.
	- A program to unpack the zip files.

To get the Vim archives, look in this file for a mirror near you, this should
provide the fastest download:

	ftp://ftp.vim.org/pub/vim/MIRRORS ~

Or use the home site ftp.vim.org, if you think it's fast enough.  Go to the
"pc" directory and you'll find a list of files there.  The version number is
embedded in the file name.  You will want to get the most recent version.
We will use "82" here, which is version 8.2.

	gvim82.exe		The self-installing archive.

This is all you need for the second method.  Just launch the executable, and
follow the prompts.

For the first method you must chose one of the binary archives.  These are
available:

	gvim82.zip		The normal MS-Windows GUI version.
	gvim82ole.zip		The MS-Windows GUI version with OLE support.
				Uses more memory, supports interfacing with
				other OLE applications.
	vim82w32.zip		32 bit MS-Windows console version.

You only need one of them.  Although you could install both a GUI and a
console version.  You always need to get the archive with runtime files.

	vim82rt.zip		The runtime files.

Use your un-zip program to unpack the files.  For example, using the "unzip"
program: >

	cd c:\
	unzip path\gvim82.zip
	unzip path\vim82rt.zip

This will unpack the files in the directory "c:\vim\vim82".  If you already
have a "vim" directory somewhere, you will want to move to the directory just
above it.
   Now change to the "vim\vim82" directory and run the install program: >

	install

Carefully look through the messages and select the options you want to use.
If you finally select "do it" the install program will carry out the actions
you selected.
   The install program doesn't move the runtime files.  They remain where you
unpacked them.

In case you are not satisfied with the features included in the supplied
binaries, you could try compiling Vim yourself.  Get the source archive from
the same location as where the binaries are.  You need a compiler for which a
makefile exists.  Microsoft Visual C, MinGW and Cygwin compilers can be used.
Check the file src/INSTALLpc.txt for hints.

