1.3 Proposed Solution

   This document describes a new optional type of OSPF area, somewhat
   humorously referred to as a "not-so-stubby" area (or NSSA), which has
   the capability of importing external routes in a limited fashion.

   The OSPF specification defines two general classes of area
   configuration.  The first allows Type-5 LSAs to be flooded throughout
   the area.  In this configuration, Type-5 LSAs may be originated by
   routers internal to the area or flooded into the area by area border
   routers.  These areas, referred to herein as Type-5 capable areas (or
   just plain areas in the OSPF specification), are distinguished by the
   fact that they can carry transit traffic.  The backbone is always a
   Type-5 capable area.  The second type of area configuration, called
   stub, does not allow Type-5 LSAs to be propagated into/throughout the
   area and instead depends on default routing to external destinations.

   NSSAs are defined in much the same manner as existing stub areas.  To
   support NSSAs, a new option bit (the "N" bit) and a new type of LSA
   (Type-7) are defined.  The "N" bit ensures that routers belonging to
   an NSSA agree on its configuration.  Similar to the stub area's use
   of the "E" bit, both NSSA neighbors must agree on the setting of the
   "N" bit or the OSPF neighbor adjacency will not form.

   Type-7 LSAs provide for carrying external route information within an
   NSSA. Type-7 LSAs have virtually the same syntax as Type-5 LSAs with
   the obvious exception of the link-state type.  (See section 2.3 for
   more details.)   Both LSAs are considered a type of OSPF AS-
   external-LSA.  There are two major semantic differences between
   Type-5 LSAs and Type-7 LSAs.

      o  Type-7 LSAs may be originated by and advertised throughout an
         NSSA; as with stub areas, Type-5 LSAs are not flooded into
         NSSAs and do not originate there.

      o  Type-7 LSAs are advertised only within a single NSSA; they are
         not flooded into the backbone area or any other area by border
         routers, though the information that they contain may be
         propagated into the backbone area.  (See Section 3.2.)



Murphy                      Standards Track                     [Page 5]

RFC 3101       The OSPF Not-So-Stubby Area (NSSA) Option    January 2003


   In order to allow limited exchange of external information across an
   NSSA border, NSSA border routers will translate selected Type-7 LSAs
   received from the NSSA into Type-5 LSAs.  These Type-5 LSAs will be
   flooded to all Type-5 capable areas.  NSSA border routers may be
   configured with address ranges so that multiple Type-7 LSAs may be
   aggregated into a single Type-5 LSA.  The NSSA border routers that
   perform translation are configurable.  In the absence of a configured
   translator one is elected.

   In addition, an NSSA border router should originate a default LSA (IP
   network is 0.0.0.0/0) into the NSSA.  Default routes are necessary
   because NSSAs do not receive full routing information and must have a
   default route in order to route to AS-external destinations.  Like
   stub areas, NSSAs may be connected to the Area 0 backbone at more
   than one NSSA border router, but may not be used as a transit area.
   Note that a Type-7 default LSA originated by an NSSA border router is
   never translated into a Type-5 LSA, however, a Type-7 default LSA
   originated by an NSSA internal AS boundary router (one that is not an
   NSSA border router) may be translated into a Type-5 LSA.

   Like stub areas, NSSA border routers optionally import summary routes
   into their NSSAs as Type-3 summary-LSAs.  If the import is disabled,
   particular care should be taken to ensure that summary routing is not
   obscured by an NSSA's Type-7 AS-external-LSAs.  This may happen when
   the AS's other IGPs, like RIP and ISIS, leak routing information into
   the NSSA.  In these cases all summary routes should be imported into
   the NSSA.  The recommended default behavior is to import summary
   routes into NSSAs.  Since Type-5 AS-external-LSAs are not flooded
   into NSSAs, NSSA border routers should not originate Type-4 summary-
   LSAs into their NSSAs.  Also an NSSA's border routers never originate
   Type-4 summary-LSAs for the NSSA's AS boundary routers, since Type-7
   AS-external-LSAs are never flooded beyond the NSSA's border.

   When summary routes are not imported into an NSSA, the default LSA
   originated into it by its border routers must be a Type-3 summary-
   LSA.  This default summary-LSA insures intra-AS connectivity to the
   rest of the OSPF domain, as its default summary route is preferred
   over the default route of a Type-7 default LSA.  Without a default
   summary route the OSPF domain's inter-area traffic, which is normally
   forwarded by summary routes, might exit the AS via the default route
   of a Type-7 default LSA originated by an NSSA internal router.  The
   Type-7 default LSAs originated by NSSA internal routers and the no-
   summary option are mutually exclusive features. When summary routes
   are imported into the NSSA, the default LSA originated by a NSSA
   border router into the NSSA should be a Type-7 LSA.

   In our transit topology example the subnets of 130.57 and network
   192.31.114 will still be learned by RIP on router BR18, but now both



Murphy                      Standards Track                     [Page 6]

RFC 3101       The OSPF Not-So-Stubby Area (NSSA) Option    January 2003


   BR10 and BR18 can be in an NSSA and all of BBN Planet's external
   routes are hidden from BR18; BR10 becomes an NSSA border router and
   BR18 becomes an AS boundary router internal to the NSSA.  BR18 will
   import the subnets of 130.57 and network 192.31.114 as Type-7 LSAs
   into the NSSA.  BR10 then translates these routes into Type-5 LSAs
   and floods them into BBN Planet's backbone.

   In our corporate topology example if Area 1 and Area 2 are NSSAs the
   external paths to the subnets of the address ranges 192.168.192/20
   and 192.168.208/22 can be redistributed as Type-7 LSAs throughout
   Area 1 and Area 2 respectively, and then aggregated during the
   translation process into separate Type-5 LSAs that are flooded into
   Area 0.  A0 may be configured as Area 1's translator even though B0
   is the translator of Area 2.

