2.3  Type-7 LSAs

   External routes are imported into NSSAs as Type-7 LSAs by NSSA AS
   boundary routers.  An NSSA AS boundary router (ASBR) is a router that
   has an interface associated with the NSSA and is exchanging routing
   information with routers belonging to another AS.  Like OSPF ASBRs,
   an NSSA router indicates it is an NSSA ASBR by setting the E-bit in
   its router-LSA.  As with Type-5 LSAs a separate Type-7 LSA is
   originated for each destination network.  To support NSSAs the link-
   state database must therefore be expanded to contain Type-7 LSAs.

   Type-7 LSAs are identical to Type-5 LSAs except for the following
   (see [OSPF] Section 12.4.4, "AS external links").

      1. The Type field in the LSA header is 7.

      2. Type-7 LSAs are only flooded within the originating NSSA.  The
         flooding of Type-7 LSAs follows the same rules as the flooding
         of Type-1 and Type-2 LSAs.

      3. Type-7 LSAs are only listed within the OSPF area data
         structures of their respective NSSAs, making them area
         specific.  Type-5 LSAs, which are flooded to all Type-5 capable
         areas, have global scope and are listed in the OSPF protocol
         data structure.

      4. NSSA border routers select which Type-7 LSAs are translated
         into Type-5 LSAs and flooded into the OSPF domain's transit
         topology.

      5. Type-7 LSAs have a propagate (P) bit that, when set, tells an
         NSSA border router to translate a Type-7 LSA into a Type-5 LSA.

      6. Those Type-7 LSAs that are to be translated into Type-5 LSAs
         must have their forwarding address set.








Murphy                      Standards Track                     [Page 8]

RFC 3101       The OSPF Not-So-Stubby Area (NSSA) Option    January 2003


   Type-5 LSAs that are translations of Type-7 LSAs copy the Type-7
   LSAs' non-zero forwarding addresses.  Only those Type-5 LSAs that are
   aggregations of Type-7 LSAs may have 0.0.0.0 as a forwarding address.
   (See Section 3.2 for details.)  Non-zero forwarding addresses produce
   efficient inter-area routing to an NSSA's AS external destinations
   when it has multiple border routers.  Also the non-zero forwarding
   addresses of Type-7 LSAs ease the process of their translation into
   Type-5 LSAs, as NSSA border routers are not required to compute them.

   Normally the next hop address of an installed AS external route
   learned by an NSSA ASBR from an adjacent AS points at one of the
   adjacent AS's gateway routers.  If this address belongs to a network
   connected to the NSSA ASBR via one of its NSSAs' active interfaces,
   then the NSSA ASBR copies this next hop address into the forwarding
   address field of the route's Type-7 LSA that is originated into this
   NSSA, as is currently done with Type-5 LSAs. (See [OSPF] Section
   12.4.4.1.)  For an NSSA with no such network the forwarding address
   field may only be filled with an address from one of the its active
   interfaces or 0.0.0.0.  If the P-bit is set, the forwarding address
   must be non-zero; otherwise it may be 0.0.0.0.  If an NSSA requires
   the P-bit be set and a non-zero forwarding address is unavailable,
   then the route's Type-7 LSA is not originated into this NSSA.

   When a router is forced to pick a forwarding address for a Type-7
   LSA, preference should be given first to the router's internal
   addresses (provided internal addressing is supported).  If internal
   addresses are not available, preference should be given to the
   router's active OSPF stub network addresses.  These choices avoid the
   possible extra hop that may happen when a transit network's address
   is used.  When the interface whose IP address is the LSA's forwarding
   address transitions to a Down state (see [OSPF] Section 9.3), the
   router must select a new forwarding address for the LSA and then re-
   originate it.  If one is not available the LSA should be flushed.

   The metrics and path types of Type-5 LSAs are directly comparable
   with the metrics and path types of Type-7 LSAs.

