3.2 Translating Type-7 LSAs into Type-5 LSAs

   This step is performed as part of the NSSA's Dijkstra calculation
   after Type-5 and Type-7 routes have been calculated.  If the
   calculating router is currently not an NSSA border router translator,
   then this translation algorithm should be skipped.  Only installed





Murphy                      Standards Track                    [Page 16]

RFC 3101       The OSPF Not-So-Stubby Area (NSSA) Option    January 2003


   Type-7 LSAs and those non-default Type-7 LSAs originated by the
   router itself should be examined.  Locally sourced Type-7 LSAs should
   be processed first.

   Note that it is possible for a Type-5 LSA generated by translation to
   supplant a Type-5 LSA originating from a local OSPF external source.
   Future reoriginations of the locally sourced Type-5 LSA should be
   suppressed until the Type-5 LSA generated by translation is flushed.

   A Type-7 LSA and a Type-7 address range best match one another if
   there does not exist a more specific Type-7 address range that
   contains the LSA's network.  For each eligible Type-7 LSA perform the
   following:

      (1) If the Type-7 LSA has the P-bit clear, or its forwarding
          address is set to 0.0.0.0, or the most specific Type-7 address
          range that subsumes the LSA's network has DoNotAdvertise
          status, then do nothing with this Type-7 LSA and consider the
          next one in the list.  Otherwise term the LSA as translatable
          and proceed with step (2).

      (2) If the Type-7 LSA is not contained in any explicitly
          configured Type-7 address range and the calculating router has
          the highest router ID amongst NSSA translators that have
          originated a functionally equivalent Type-5 LSA (i.e. same
          destination, cost and non-zero forwarding address) and that
          are reachable over area 0 and the NSSA, then a Type-5 LSA
          should be generated if there is currently no Type-5 LSA
          originating from this router corresponding to the Type-7 LSA's
          network, or there is an existing Type-5 LSA and either it
          corresponds to a local OSPF external source whose path type
          and metric is less preferred (see Section 2.5 step (6), parts
          (b) and (d)), or it doesn't and the Type-5 LSA's path type or
          cost(s) have changed (See Section 2.5 step (5)) or the
          forwarding address no longer maps to a translatable Type-7
          LSA.

          The newly originated Type-5 LSA will describe the same network
          and have the same network mask, path type, metric, forwarding
          address and external route tag as the Type-7 LSA.  The
          advertising router field will be the router ID of this NSSA
          border router.  The link-state ID is equal to the LSA's
          network address (in the case of multiple originations of
          Type-5 LSAs with the same network address but different mask,
          the link-state ID can also have one or more of the network's
          "host" bits set).





Murphy                      Standards Track                    [Page 17]

RFC 3101       The OSPF Not-So-Stubby Area (NSSA) Option    January 2003


      (3) Else the Type-7 LSA must be aggregated by the most specific
          Type-7 address range that subsumes it.  If this Type-7 address
          range has the same [address,mask] pair as the LSA's network
          and no other translatable Type-7 LSA with a different network
          best matches this range, then flag the LSA as not contained in
          any explicitly configured Type-7 address range and process the
          LSA as described in step (2).  Otherwise compute the path type
          and metric for this Type-7 address range as described below.

          The path type and metric of the Type-7 address range is
          determined from the path types and metrics of those
          translatable Type-7 LSAs that best match the range plus any
          locally sourced Type-5 LSAs whose network has the same
          [address,mask] pair.  If any of these LSAs have a path type of
          2, the range's path type is 2, otherwise it is 1.  If the
          range's path type is 1 its metric is the highest cost amongst
          these LSAs; if the range's path type is 2 its metric is the
          highest Type-2 cost + 1 amongst these LSAs.  (See Section 2.5
          step (5).)  1 is added to the Type-2 cost to ensure that the
          translated Type-5 LSA does not appear closer on the NSSA
          border than a translatable Type-7 LSA whose network has the
          same [address,mask] pair and Type-2 cost.

          A Type-5 LSA is generated from the Type-7 address range when
          there is currently no Type-5 LSA originated by this router
          whose network has the same [address,mask] pair as the range or
          there is but either its path type or metric has changed or its
          forwarding address is non-zero.

          The newly generated Type-5 LSA will have a link-state ID equal
          to the Type-7 address range's address (in the case of multiple
          originations of Type-5 LSAs with the same network address but
          different mask, the link-state ID can also have one or more of
          the range's "host" bits set).  The advertising router field
          will be the router ID of this area border router.  The network
          mask and the external route tag are set to the range's
          configured values.  The forwarding address is set to 0.0.0.0.
          The path type and metric are set to the range's path type and
          metric as defined and computed above.

          The pending processing of other translation eligible Type-7
          LSAs that best match this Type-7 address range is suppressed.
          Thus at most a single Type-5 LSA is originated for each Type-7
          address range.







Murphy                      Standards Track                    [Page 18]

RFC 3101       The OSPF Not-So-Stubby Area (NSSA) Option    January 2003


   For example, given a Type-7 address range of [10.0.0.0, 255.0.0.0]
   that subsumes the following Type-7 routes:

                 10.1.0.0/24 path type 1, cost 10
                 10.2.0.0/24 path type 1, cost 11
                 10.3.0.0/24 path type 2, type 2 cost 5

   a Type-5 LSA would be generated with a path type of 2 and a metric 6.

   Given a Type-7 address range of [10.0.0.0, 255.0.0.0] that subsumes
   the following Type-7 routes:

                 10.1.0.0/24 path type 1, cost 10
                 10.2.0.0/24 path type 1, cost 11
                 10.3.0.0/24 path type 1, cost 5

   a Type-5 LSA will be generated with a path type of 1 and a metric 11.

   These Type-7 address range metric and path type rules will avoid
   routing loops in the event that path types 1 and 2 are both used
   within the area.

   As with all newly originated Type-5 LSAs, a Type-5 LSA that is the
   result of a Type-7 LSA translation or aggregation is flooded to all
   attached Type-5 capable areas.

   Like Type-3 address ranges, a Type-7 address range performs the dual
   function of setting propagation policy via its
   Advertise/DoNotAdvertise parameter and aggregation via its network
   address and mask pair. Unlike the origination of Type-3 summary-LSAs,
   the translation of a Type-7 LSA into a Type-5 LSA may result in more
   efficient routing when the forwarding address is set, as is done
   during step (2) of the translation procedure.

   Another important feature of this translation process is that it
   allows a Type-7 address range to apply different properties
   (aggregation, forwarding address, and Advertise/DoNotAdvertise
   status) for the Type-7 routes it subsumes, versus those Type-7 routes
   subsumed by other more specific Type-7 address ranges contained in
   the Type-7 address range.

