4.0 Security Considerations

   There are two types of issues that need be addressed when looking at
   protecting routing protocols from misconfigurations and malicious
   attacks.  The first is authentication and certification of routing
   protocol information.  The second is denial of service attacks
   resulting from repetitive origination of the same router
   advertisement or origination of a large number of distinct
   advertisements resulting in database overflow.  Note that both of
   these concerns exist independently of a router's support for the NSSA
   option.

   The OSPF protocol addresses authentication concerns by authenticating
   OSPF protocol exchanges.  OSPF supports multiple types of
   authentication; the type of authentication in use can be configured
   on a per network segment basis.  One of OSPF's authentication types,
   namely the Cryptographic authentication option, is believed to be
   secure against passive attacks and provides significant protection
   against active attacks.  When using the Cryptographic authentication
   option, each router appends a "message digest" to its transmitted
   OSPF packets.  Receivers then use the shared secret key and the
   received digest to verify that each received OSPF packet is
   authentic.

   The quality of the security provided by the Cryptographic
   authentication option depends completely on the strength of the
   message digest algorithm (MD5 is currently the only message digest
   algorithm specified), the strength of the key being used, and the
   correct implementation of the security mechanism in all communicating
   OSPF implementations.  It also requires that all parties maintain the
   secrecy of the shared secret key.  None of the standard OSPF
   authentication types provide confidentiality, nor do they protect
   against traffic analysis.  For more information on the standard OSPF
   security mechanisms, see Sections 8.1, 8.2, and Appendix D of [OSPF].



Murphy                      Standards Track                    [Page 20]

RFC 3101       The OSPF Not-So-Stubby Area (NSSA) Option    January 2003


   [DIGI] describes the extensions to OSPF required to add digital
   signature authentication to Link State data and to provide a
   certification mechanism for router data.  [DIGI] also describes the
   added LSA processing and key management as well as a method for
   migration from or co-existence with standard OSPF V2.

   OSPF addresses repetitive origination of advertisements by mandating
   a limit on how frequent new instances of any particular LSA can be
   originated and accepted during the flooding procedure.  The frequency
   at which new LSA instances may be originated is set to once every
   MinLSInterval seconds, whose value is 5 seconds.  (See [OSPF] Section
   12.4.)  The frequency at which new LSA instances are accepted during
   flooding is once every MinLSArrival seconds, whose value is set to 1
   second.  (See [OSPF] Section 13, Appendix B, and G.1.)

   Proper operation of the OSPF protocol requires that all OSPF routers
   maintain an identical copy of the OSPF link state database.  However,
   when the size of the link state database becomes very large, some
   routers may be unable to keep the entire database due to resource
   shortages; this is termed "database overflow".  When database
   overflow is anticipated, the routers with limited resources can be
   accommodated by configuring OSPF stub areas and NSSAs.  [OVERFLOW]
   details a way of gracefully handling unanticipated database
   overflows.

