Appendix D:  Configuration Parameters

   [OSPF] Appendix C.2 lists the area configuration parameters.  The
   area ID and the list of address ranges for Type-3 summary routes
   remain unchanged.  Section 2.2 of this document lists the
   configuration parameters for Type-7 address ranges.  The following
   area configuration parameters have been added:

      NSSATranslatorRole

         Specifies whether or not an NSSA border router will
         unconditionally translate Type-7 LSAs into Type-5 LSAs.  When
         it is set to Always, an NSSA border router always translates
         Type-7 LSAs into Type-5 LSAs regardless of the translator state
         of other NSSA border routers.  When it is set to Candidate, an
         NSSA border router participates in the translator election
         process described in Section 3.1.  The default setting is
         Candidate.

      TranslatorStabilityInterval

         Defines the length of time an elected Type-7 translator will
         continue to perform its translator duties once it has
         determined that its translator status has been deposed by
         another NSSA border router translator as described in Section
         3.1 and 3.3.  The default setting is 40 seconds.

      ImportSummaries

         When set to enabled, OSPF's summary routes are imported into
         the NSSA as Type-3 summary-LSAs.  When set to disabled, summary
         routes are not imported into the NSSA.  The default setting is
         enabled.

   Implementations must provide a vehicle for setting the P-bit when
   external routes are imported into the NSSA as Type-7 LSAs.  Without
   configuration, the default setting of the P-bit is clear.  (See
   Section 2.3 and Appendix B.)

   For NSSAs the ExternalRoutingCapability area configuration parameter
   must be set to accept Type-7 external routes.  Additionally there
   must be a way of configuring the metric of the default LSA that a
   border router advertises into its directly attached NSSAs. If a
   Type-7 default LSA is advertised, its metric type (1 or 2) should
   also be configurable.






Murphy                      Standards Track                    [Page 27]

RFC 3101       The OSPF Not-So-Stubby Area (NSSA) Option    January 2003


