2.4 Originating Type-7 LSAs

   NSSA AS boundary routers may only originate Type-7 LSAs into NSSAs.
   An NSSA internal AS boundary router must set the P-bit in the LSA
   header's option field of any Type-7 LSA whose network it wants
   advertised into the OSPF domain's full transit topology.  The LSAs of
   these networks must have a valid non-zero forwarding address.  If the
   P-bit is clear the LSA is not translated into a Type-5 LSA by NSSA
   border routers.





Murphy                      Standards Track                     [Page 9]

RFC 3101       The OSPF Not-So-Stubby Area (NSSA) Option    January 2003


   When an NSSA border router originates both a Type-5 LSA and a Type-7
   LSA for the same network, then the P-bit must be clear in the Type-7
   LSA so that it isn't translated into a Type-5 LSA by another NSSA
   border router.  If the border router only originates a Type-7 LSA, it
   may set the P-bit so that the network may be aggregated/propagated
   during Type-7 translation.  If an NSSA's border router originates a
   Type-5 LSA with a forwarding address from the NSSA, it should also
   originate a Type-7 LSA into the NSSA.  If two NSSA routers, both
   reachable from one another over the NSSA, originate functionally
   equivalent Type-7 LSAs (i.e., same destination, cost and non-zero
   forwarding address), then the router having the least preferred LSA
   should flush its LSA.  (See [OSPF] Section 12.4.4.1.)  Preference
   between two Type-7 LSAs is determined by the following tie breaker
   rules:

      1. An LSA with the P-bit set is preferred over one with the P-bit
         clear.

      2. If the P-bit settings are the same, the LSA with the higher
         router ID is preferred.

   A Type-7 default LSA for the network 0.0.0.0/0 may be originated into
   the NSSA by any NSSA router.  The Type-7 default LSA originated by an
   NSSA border router must have the P-bit clear.  An NSSA ASBR that is
   not an NSSA border router may originate a Type-7 default LSA with the
   P-bit set.  A Type-7 default LSA may be installed by NSSA border
   routers if and only if its P-bit is set.  (See Appendix E.)

   NSSA border routers must originate an LSA for the default destination
   into all their directly attached NSSAs in order to support intra-AS
   routing and inter-AS routing.  This default destination is advertised
   in either a Type-3 LSA or a Type-7 LSA, as described in Section 2.7.
   The default LSA's metric should be configurable. For Type-7 default
   LSAs, the metric type (1 or 2) should also be configurable.

