2.5 Calculating Type-7 AS External Routes

   This calculation must be run when Type-7 LSAs are processed during
   the AS external route calculation.  This calculation may process
   Type-5 LSAs, but it is written that way only for comparison sake.

   Non-default Type-7 LSAs with the P-bit clear may be installed in the
   OSPF routing table of NSSA border routers.  Since these LSAs are not
   propagated throughout the OSPF domain, traffic that originates
   external to an NSSA and that passes through one of the NSSA's border
   routers may be unexpectedly diverted into the NSSA.  (See Appendix
   E.)




Murphy                      Standards Track                    [Page 10]

RFC 3101       The OSPF Not-So-Stubby Area (NSSA) Option    January 2003


   An NSSA border router should examine both Type-5 LSAs and Type-7 LSAs
   if either Type-5 or Type-7 routes need to be updated or recalculated.
   This is done as part of the AS external route calculation.  An NSSA
   internal router should examine Type-7 LSAs when Type-7 routes need to
   be recalculated.

   What follows is only a modest modification of [OSPF] Section 16.4.
   Original paragraphs are tagged with [OSPF].  Paragraphs with minor
   changes are tagged with ~[OSPF].  Paragraphs specific to NSSA are
   tagged with [NSSA].

   AS external routes are calculated by examining AS-external-LSAs, be
   they Type-5 or Type-7.  Each of the AS-external-LSAs is considered in
   turn.  Most AS-external-LSAs describe routes to specific IP
   destinations.  An AS-external-LSA can also describe a default route
   for the Autonomous System (Destination ID = DefaultDestination,
   network/subnet mask = 0x00000000).  For each AS-external-LSA:
   ~[OSPF]

      (1) If the metric specified by the LSA is LSInfinity, or if the
          age of the LSA equals MaxAge, then examine the next LSA.
          [OSPF]

      (2) If the LSA was originated by the calculating router itself,
          examine the next LSA.
          [OSPF]

      (3) Call the destination described by the LSA N.  N's address is
          obtained by masking the LSA's Link State ID with the
          network/subnet mask contained in the body of the LSA.  Look up
          the routing table entries that match the LSA's type for the AS
          boundary router (ASBR) that originated the LSA.  For a Type-5
          LSA, routing table entries may only be selected from each
          attached Type-5 capable area.  Since the flooding scope of a
          Type-7 LSA is restricted to the originating NSSA, the routing
          table entry of its ASBR must be found in the originating NSSA.
          If no entries exist for the ASBR (i.e. the ASBR is unreachable
          over the transit topology for a Type-5 LSA, or, for a Type-7
          LSA, it is unreachable over the LSA's originating NSSA), do
          nothing with this LSA and consider the next in the list.
          [NSSA]

          Else if the destination is a Type-7 default route (destination
          ID = DefaultDestination) and one of the following is true,
          then do nothing with this LSA and consider the next in the
          list:





Murphy                      Standards Track                    [Page 11]

RFC 3101       The OSPF Not-So-Stubby Area (NSSA) Option    January 2003


            o  The calculating router is a border router and the LSA has
               its P-bit clear.  Appendix E describes a technique
               whereby an NSSA border router installs a Type-7 default
               LSA without propagating it.

            o  The calculating router is a border router and is
               suppressing the import of summary routes as Type-3
               summary-LSAs.
            [NSSA]

          Else, this LSA describes an AS external path to destination N.
          Examine the forwarding address specified in the AS-external-
          LSA.  This indicates the IP address to which packets for the
          destination should be forwarded.
          [OSPF]

          If the forwarding address is set to 0.0.0.0 then packets
          should be sent to the ASBR itself.  If the LSA is Type-5, from
          among the multiple non-NSSA routing table entries for the ASBR
          (both NSSA and non-NSSA ASBR entries might exists on an NSSA
          border router), select the preferred entry as follows:
          ~[OSPF]

            If RFC1583Compatibility is set to "disabled", prune the set
            of routing table entries for the ASBR as described in OSPF
            Section 16.4.1.  In any case, among the remaining routing
            table entries, select the routing table entry with the least
            cost; when there are multiple least cost routing table
            entries the entry whose associated area has the largest OSPF
            Area ID (when considered as an unsigned 32-bit integer) is
            chosen.
            [OSPF]

          Since a Type-7 LSA only has area-wide flooding scope, when its
          forwarding address is set to 0.0.0.0, its ASBR's routing table
          entry must be chosen from the originating NSSA.  Here no
          pruning is necessary since this entry always contains non-
          backbone intra-area paths.
          [NSSA]

          If the forwarding address is non-zero look up the forwarding
          address in the routing table.  For a Type-5 LSA the matching
          routing table entry must specify an intra-area or inter-area
          path through a Type-5 capable area.  For a Type-7 LSA the
          matching routing table entry must specify an intra-area path
          through the LSA's originating NSSA.  If no such path exists





Murphy                      Standards Track                    [Page 12]

RFC 3101       The OSPF Not-So-Stubby Area (NSSA) Option    January 2003


          then do nothing with this LSA and consider the next in the
          list.
          [NSSA]

      (4) Let X be the cost specified by the preferred routing table
          entry for the ASBR/forwarding address, and Y the cost
          specified in the LSA.  X is in terms of the link state metric,
          and Y is a type 1 or 2 external metric.
          [OSPF]

      (5) Now, look up the routing table entry for the destination N.
          If no entry exists for N, install the AS external path to N,
          with the next hop equal to the list of next hops to the
          ASBR/forwarding address, and advertising router equal to the
          ASBR.  If the external metric type is 1, then the path-type is
          set to Type-1 external and the cost is equal to X + Y.  If the
          external metric type is 2, the path-type is set to Type-2
          external, the link-state component of the route's cost is X,
          and the type 2 cost is Y.
          [OSPF]

      (6) Otherwise compare the AS external path described by the LSA
          with the existing paths in N's routing table entry.  If the
          new path is preferred, it replaces the present paths in N's
          routing table entry.  If the new path is of equal preference,
          it is added to the present paths in N's routing table entry.
          [OSPF]

          Preference is defined as follows:

          (a) Intra-area and inter-area paths are always preferred over
              AS external paths.
              [OSPF]

          (b) Type 1 external paths are always preferred over type 2
              external paths.  When all paths are type 2 external paths,
              the paths with the smallest advertised type 2 metric are
              always preferred.
              [OSPF]

          (c) If the new AS external path is still indistinguishable
              from the current paths in N's routing table entry, and
              RFC1583Compatibility is set to "disabled", select the
              preferred paths based on the intra-AS paths to the
              ASBR/forwarding addresses, as specified in Section 16.4.1.
              Here intra-NSSA paths are equivalent to the intra-area
              paths of non-backbone regular OSPF areas.
              [NSSA]



Murphy                      Standards Track                    [Page 13]

RFC 3101       The OSPF Not-So-Stubby Area (NSSA) Option    January 2003


          (d) If the new AS external path is still indistinguishable
              from the current paths in N's routing table entry, select
              the preferred path based on a least cost comparison.  Type
              1 external paths are compared by looking at the sum of the
              distance to the ASBR/forwarding addresses and the
              advertised type 1 metric (X+Y).  Type 2 external paths
              advertising equal type 2 metrics are compared by looking
              at the distance to the ASBR/forwarding addresses.
              ~[OSPF]

          (e) If the current LSA is functionally the same as an
              installed LSA (i.e., same destination, cost and non-zero
              forwarding address) then apply the following priorities in
              deciding which LSA is preferred:

                 1. A Type-7 LSA with the P-bit set.

                 2. A Type-5 LSA.

                 3. The LSA with the higher router ID.

              [NSSA]

