3.7 Executing Commands
======================

* Menu:

* Simple Command Expansion::	How Bash expands simple commands before
				executing them.
* Command Search and Execution::	How Bash finds commands and runs them.
* Command Execution Environment::	The environment in which Bash
					executes commands that are not
					shell builtins.
* Environment::		The environment given to a command.
* Exit Status::		The status returned by commands and how Bash
			interprets it.
* Signals::		What happens when Bash or a command it runs
			receives a signal.

File: bash.info,  Node: Simple Command Expansion,  Next: Command Search and Execution,  Up: Executing Commands

3.7.1 Simple Command Expansion
------------------------------

When a simple command is executed, the shell performs the following
expansions, assignments, and redirections, from left to right.

  1. The words that the parser has marked as variable assignments (those
     preceding the command name) and redirections are saved for later
     processing.

  2. The words that are not variable assignments or redirections are
     expanded (*note Shell Expansions::).  If any words remain after
     expansion, the first word is taken to be the name of the command
     and the remaining words are the arguments.

  3. Redirections are performed as described above (*note
     Redirections::).

  4. The text after the '=' in each variable assignment undergoes tilde
     expansion, parameter expansion, command substitution, arithmetic
     expansion, and quote removal before being assigned to the variable.

   If no command name results, the variable assignments affect the
current shell environment.  Otherwise, the variables are added to the
environment of the executed command and do not affect the current shell
environment.  If any of the assignments attempts to assign a value to a
readonly variable, an error occurs, and the command exits with a
non-zero status.

   If no command name results, redirections are performed, but do not
affect the current shell environment.  A redirection error causes the
command to exit with a non-zero status.

   If there is a command name left after expansion, execution proceeds
as described below.  Otherwise, the command exits.  If one of the
expansions contained a command substitution, the exit status of the
command is the exit status of the last command substitution performed.
If there were no command substitutions, the command exits with a status
of zero.

File: bash.info,  Node: Command Search and Execution,  Next: Command Execution Environment,  Prev: Simple Command Expansion,  Up: Executing Commands

3.7.2 Command Search and Execution
----------------------------------

After a command has been split into words, if it results in a simple
command and an optional list of arguments, the following actions are
taken.

  1. If the command name contains no slashes, the shell attempts to
     locate it.  If there exists a shell function by that name, that
     function is invoked as described in *note Shell Functions::.

  2. If the name does not match a function, the shell searches for it in
     the list of shell builtins.  If a match is found, that builtin is
     invoked.

  3. If the name is neither a shell function nor a builtin, and contains
     no slashes, Bash searches each element of '$PATH' for a directory
     containing an executable file by that name.  Bash uses a hash table
     to remember the full pathnames of executable files to avoid
     multiple 'PATH' searches (see the description of 'hash' in *note
     Bourne Shell Builtins::).  A full search of the directories in
     '$PATH' is performed only if the command is not found in the hash
     table.  If the search is unsuccessful, the shell searches for a
     defined shell function named 'command_not_found_handle'.  If that
     function exists, it is invoked in a separate execution environment
     with the original command and the original command's arguments as
     its arguments, and the function's exit status becomes the exit
     status of that subshell.  If that function is not defined, the
     shell prints an error message and returns an exit status of 127.

  4. If the search is successful, or if the command name contains one or
     more slashes, the shell executes the named program in a separate
     execution environment.  Argument 0 is set to the name given, and
     the remaining arguments to the command are set to the arguments
     supplied, if any.

  5. If this execution fails because the file is not in executable
     format, and the file is not a directory, it is assumed to be a
     SHELL SCRIPT and the shell executes it as described in *note Shell
     Scripts::.

  6. If the command was not begun asynchronously, the shell waits for
     the command to complete and collects its exit status.

File: bash.info,  Node: Command Execution Environment,  Next: Environment,  Prev: Command Search and Execution,  Up: Executing Commands

3.7.3 Command Execution Environment
-----------------------------------

The shell has an EXECUTION ENVIRONMENT, which consists of the following:

   * open files inherited by the shell at invocation, as modified by
     redirections supplied to the 'exec' builtin

   * the current working directory as set by 'cd', 'pushd', or 'popd',
     or inherited by the shell at invocation

   * the file creation mode mask as set by 'umask' or inherited from the
     shell's parent

   * current traps set by 'trap'

   * shell parameters that are set by variable assignment or with 'set'
     or inherited from the shell's parent in the environment

   * shell functions defined during execution or inherited from the
     shell's parent in the environment

   * options enabled at invocation (either by default or with
     command-line arguments) or by 'set'

   * options enabled by 'shopt' (*note The Shopt Builtin::)

   * shell aliases defined with 'alias' (*note Aliases::)

   * various process IDs, including those of background jobs (*note
     Lists::), the value of '$$', and the value of '$PPID'

   When a simple command other than a builtin or shell function is to be
executed, it is invoked in a separate execution environment that
consists of the following.  Unless otherwise noted, the values are
inherited from the shell.

   * the shell's open files, plus any modifications and additions
     specified by redirections to the command

   * the current working directory

   * the file creation mode mask

   * shell variables and functions marked for export, along with
     variables exported for the command, passed in the environment
     (*note Environment::)

   * traps caught by the shell are reset to the values inherited from
     the shell's parent, and traps ignored by the shell are ignored

   A command invoked in this separate environment cannot affect the
shell's execution environment.

   Command substitution, commands grouped with parentheses, and
asynchronous commands are invoked in a subshell environment that is a
duplicate of the shell environment, except that traps caught by the
shell are reset to the values that the shell inherited from its parent
at invocation.  Builtin commands that are invoked as part of a pipeline
are also executed in a subshell environment.  Changes made to the
subshell environment cannot affect the shell's execution environment.

   Subshells spawned to execute command substitutions inherit the value
of the '-e' option from the parent shell.  When not in POSIX mode, Bash
clears the '-e' option in such subshells.

   If a command is followed by a '&' and job control is not active, the
default standard input for the command is the empty file '/dev/null'.
Otherwise, the invoked command inherits the file descriptors of the
calling shell as modified by redirections.

File: bash.info,  Node: Environment,  Next: Exit Status,  Prev: Command Execution Environment,  Up: Executing Commands

3.7.4 Environment
-----------------

When a program is invoked it is given an array of strings called the
ENVIRONMENT.  This is a list of name-value pairs, of the form
'name=value'.

   Bash provides several ways to manipulate the environment.  On
invocation, the shell scans its own environment and creates a parameter
for each name found, automatically marking it for EXPORT to child
processes.  Executed commands inherit the environment.  The 'export' and
'declare -x' commands allow parameters and functions to be added to and
deleted from the environment.  If the value of a parameter in the
environment is modified, the new value becomes part of the environment,
replacing the old.  The environment inherited by any executed command
consists of the shell's initial environment, whose values may be
modified in the shell, less any pairs removed by the 'unset' and 'export
-n' commands, plus any additions via the 'export' and 'declare -x'
commands.

   The environment for any simple command or function may be augmented
temporarily by prefixing it with parameter assignments, as described in
*note Shell Parameters::.  These assignment statements affect only the
environment seen by that command.

   If the '-k' option is set (*note The Set Builtin::), then all
parameter assignments are placed in the environment for a command, not
just those that precede the command name.

   When Bash invokes an external command, the variable '$_' is set to
the full pathname of the command and passed to that command in its
environment.

File: bash.info,  Node: Exit Status,  Next: Signals,  Prev: Environment,  Up: Executing Commands

3.7.5 Exit Status
-----------------

The exit status of an executed command is the value returned by the
WAITPID system call or equivalent function.  Exit statuses fall between
0 and 255, though, as explained below, the shell may use values above
125 specially.  Exit statuses from shell builtins and compound commands
are also limited to this range.  Under certain circumstances, the shell
will use special values to indicate specific failure modes.

   For the shell's purposes, a command which exits with a zero exit
status has succeeded.  A non-zero exit status indicates failure.  This
seemingly counter-intuitive scheme is used so there is one well-defined
way to indicate success and a variety of ways to indicate various
failure modes.  When a command terminates on a fatal signal whose number
is N, Bash uses the value 128+N as the exit status.

   If a command is not found, the child process created to execute it
returns a status of 127.  If a command is found but is not executable,
the return status is 126.

   If a command fails because of an error during expansion or
redirection, the exit status is greater than zero.

   The exit status is used by the Bash conditional commands (*note
Conditional Constructs::) and some of the list constructs (*note
Lists::).

   All of the Bash builtins return an exit status of zero if they
succeed and a non-zero status on failure, so they may be used by the
conditional and list constructs.  All builtins return an exit status of
2 to indicate incorrect usage, generally invalid options or missing
arguments.

File: bash.info,  Node: Signals,  Prev: Exit Status,  Up: Executing Commands

3.7.6 Signals
-------------

When Bash is interactive, in the absence of any traps, it ignores
'SIGTERM' (so that 'kill 0' does not kill an interactive shell), and
'SIGINT' is caught and handled (so that the 'wait' builtin is
interruptible).  When Bash receives a 'SIGINT', it breaks out of any
executing loops.  In all cases, Bash ignores 'SIGQUIT'.  If job control
is in effect (*note Job Control::), Bash ignores 'SIGTTIN', 'SIGTTOU',
and 'SIGTSTP'.

   Non-builtin commands started by Bash have signal handlers set to the
values inherited by the shell from its parent.  When job control is not
in effect, asynchronous commands ignore 'SIGINT' and 'SIGQUIT' in
addition to these inherited handlers.  Commands run as a result of
command substitution ignore the keyboard-generated job control signals
'SIGTTIN', 'SIGTTOU', and 'SIGTSTP'.

   The shell exits by default upon receipt of a 'SIGHUP'.  Before
exiting, an interactive shell resends the 'SIGHUP' to all jobs, running
or stopped.  Stopped jobs are sent 'SIGCONT' to ensure that they receive
the 'SIGHUP'.  To prevent the shell from sending the 'SIGHUP' signal to
a particular job, it should be removed from the jobs table with the
'disown' builtin (*note Job Control Builtins::) or marked to not receive
'SIGHUP' using 'disown -h'.

   If the 'huponexit' shell option has been set with 'shopt' (*note The
Shopt Builtin::), Bash sends a 'SIGHUP' to all jobs when an interactive
login shell exits.

   If Bash is waiting for a command to complete and receives a signal
for which a trap has been set, the trap will not be executed until the
command completes.  When Bash is waiting for an asynchronous command via
the 'wait' builtin, the reception of a signal for which a trap has been
set will cause the 'wait' builtin to return immediately with an exit
status greater than 128, immediately after which the trap is executed.

File: bash.info,  Node: Shell Scripts,  Prev: Executing Commands,  Up: Basic Shell Features

