4.2 Bash Builtin Commands
=========================

This section describes builtin commands which are unique to or have been
extended in Bash.  Some of these commands are specified in the POSIX
standard.

'alias'
          alias [-p] [NAME[=VALUE] ...]

     Without arguments or with the '-p' option, 'alias' prints the list
     of aliases on the standard output in a form that allows them to be
     reused as input.  If arguments are supplied, an alias is defined
     for each NAME whose VALUE is given.  If no VALUE is given, the name
     and value of the alias is printed.  Aliases are described in *note
     Aliases::.

'bind'
          bind [-m KEYMAP] [-lpsvPSVX]
          bind [-m KEYMAP] [-q FUNCTION] [-u FUNCTION] [-r KEYSEQ]
          bind [-m KEYMAP] -f FILENAME
          bind [-m KEYMAP] -x KEYSEQ:SHELL-COMMAND
          bind [-m KEYMAP] KEYSEQ:FUNCTION-NAME
          bind [-m KEYMAP] KEYSEQ:READLINE-COMMAND

     Display current Readline (*note Command Line Editing::) key and
     function bindings, bind a key sequence to a Readline function or
     macro, or set a Readline variable.  Each non-option argument is a
     command as it would appear in a Readline initialization file (*note
     Readline Init File::), but each binding or command must be passed
     as a separate argument; e.g., '"\C-x\C-r":re-read-init-file'.

     Options, if supplied, have the following meanings:

     '-m KEYMAP'
          Use KEYMAP as the keymap to be affected by the subsequent
          bindings.  Acceptable KEYMAP names are 'emacs',
          'emacs-standard', 'emacs-meta', 'emacs-ctlx', 'vi', 'vi-move',
          'vi-command', and 'vi-insert'.  'vi' is equivalent to
          'vi-command' ('vi-move' is also a synonym); 'emacs' is
          equivalent to 'emacs-standard'.

     '-l'
          List the names of all Readline functions.

     '-p'
          Display Readline function names and bindings in such a way
          that they can be used as input or in a Readline initialization
          file.

     '-P'
          List current Readline function names and bindings.

     '-v'
          Display Readline variable names and values in such a way that
          they can be used as input or in a Readline initialization
          file.

     '-V'
          List current Readline variable names and values.

     '-s'
          Display Readline key sequences bound to macros and the strings
          they output in such a way that they can be used as input or in
          a Readline initialization file.

     '-S'
          Display Readline key sequences bound to macros and the strings
          they output.

     '-f FILENAME'
          Read key bindings from FILENAME.

     '-q FUNCTION'
          Query about which keys invoke the named FUNCTION.

     '-u FUNCTION'
          Unbind all keys bound to the named FUNCTION.

     '-r KEYSEQ'
          Remove any current binding for KEYSEQ.

     '-x KEYSEQ:SHELL-COMMAND'
          Cause SHELL-COMMAND to be executed whenever KEYSEQ is entered.
          When SHELL-COMMAND is executed, the shell sets the
          'READLINE_LINE' variable to the contents of the Readline line
          buffer and the 'READLINE_POINT' variable to the current
          location of the insertion point.  If the executed command
          changes the value of 'READLINE_LINE' or 'READLINE_POINT',
          those new values will be reflected in the editing state.

     '-X'
          List all key sequences bound to shell commands and the
          associated commands in a format that can be reused as input.

     The return status is zero unless an invalid option is supplied or
     an error occurs.

'builtin'
          builtin [SHELL-BUILTIN [ARGS]]

     Run a shell builtin, passing it ARGS, and return its exit status.
     This is useful when defining a shell function with the same name as
     a shell builtin, retaining the functionality of the builtin within
     the function.  The return status is non-zero if SHELL-BUILTIN is
     not a shell builtin command.

'caller'
          caller [EXPR]

     Returns the context of any active subroutine call (a shell function
     or a script executed with the '.' or 'source' builtins).

     Without EXPR, 'caller' displays the line number and source filename
     of the current subroutine call.  If a non-negative integer is
     supplied as EXPR, 'caller' displays the line number, subroutine
     name, and source file corresponding to that position in the current
     execution call stack.  This extra information may be used, for
     example, to print a stack trace.  The current frame is frame 0.

     The return value is 0 unless the shell is not executing a
     subroutine call or EXPR does not correspond to a valid position in
     the call stack.

'command'
          command [-pVv] COMMAND [ARGUMENTS ...]

     Runs COMMAND with ARGUMENTS ignoring any shell function named
     COMMAND.  Only shell builtin commands or commands found by
     searching the 'PATH' are executed.  If there is a shell function
     named 'ls', running 'command ls' within the function will execute
     the external command 'ls' instead of calling the function
     recursively.  The '-p' option means to use a default value for
     'PATH' that is guaranteed to find all of the standard utilities.
     The return status in this case is 127 if COMMAND cannot be found or
     an error occurred, and the exit status of COMMAND otherwise.

     If either the '-V' or '-v' option is supplied, a description of
     COMMAND is printed.  The '-v' option causes a single word
     indicating the command or file name used to invoke COMMAND to be
     displayed; the '-V' option produces a more verbose description.  In
     this case, the return status is zero if COMMAND is found, and
     non-zero if not.

'declare'
          declare [-aAfFgilnrtux] [-p] [NAME[=VALUE] ...]

     Declare variables and give them attributes.  If no NAMEs are given,
     then display the values of variables instead.

     The '-p' option will display the attributes and values of each
     NAME.  When '-p' is used with NAME arguments, additional options,
     other than '-f' and '-F', are ignored.

     When '-p' is supplied without NAME arguments, 'declare' will
     display the attributes and values of all variables having the
     attributes specified by the additional options.  If no other
     options are supplied with '-p', 'declare' will display the
     attributes and values of all shell variables.  The '-f' option will
     restrict the display to shell functions.

     The '-F' option inhibits the display of function definitions; only
     the function name and attributes are printed.  If the 'extdebug'
     shell option is enabled using 'shopt' (*note The Shopt Builtin::),
     the source file name and line number where each NAME is defined are
     displayed as well.  '-F' implies '-f'.

     The '-g' option forces variables to be created or modified at the
     global scope, even when 'declare' is executed in a shell function.
     It is ignored in all other cases.

     The following options can be used to restrict output to variables
     with the specified attributes or to give variables attributes:

     '-a'
          Each NAME is an indexed array variable (*note Arrays::).

     '-A'
          Each NAME is an associative array variable (*note Arrays::).

     '-f'
          Use function names only.

     '-i'
          The variable is to be treated as an integer; arithmetic
          evaluation (*note Shell Arithmetic::) is performed when the
          variable is assigned a value.

     '-l'
          When the variable is assigned a value, all upper-case
          characters are converted to lower-case.  The upper-case
          attribute is disabled.

     '-n'
          Give each NAME the NAMEREF attribute, making it a name
          reference to another variable.  That other variable is defined
          by the value of NAME.  All references, assignments, and
          attribute modifications to NAME, except for those using or
          changing the '-n' attribute itself, are performed on the
          variable referenced by NAME's value.  The nameref attribute
          cannot be applied to array variables.

     '-r'
          Make NAMEs readonly.  These names cannot then be assigned
          values by subsequent assignment statements or unset.

     '-t'
          Give each NAME the 'trace' attribute.  Traced functions
          inherit the 'DEBUG' and 'RETURN' traps from the calling shell.
          The trace attribute has no special meaning for variables.

     '-u'
          When the variable is assigned a value, all lower-case
          characters are converted to upper-case.  The lower-case
          attribute is disabled.

     '-x'
          Mark each NAME for export to subsequent commands via the
          environment.

     Using '+' instead of '-' turns off the attribute instead, with the
     exceptions that '+a' and '+A' may not be used to destroy array
     variables and '+r' will not remove the readonly attribute.  When
     used in a function, 'declare' makes each NAME local, as with the
     'local' command, unless the '-g' option is used.  If a variable
     name is followed by =VALUE, the value of the variable is set to
     VALUE.

     When using '-a' or '-A' and the compound assignment syntax to
     create array variables, additional attributes do not take effect
     until subsequent assignments.

     The return status is zero unless an invalid option is encountered,
     an attempt is made to define a function using '-f foo=bar', an
     attempt is made to assign a value to a readonly variable, an
     attempt is made to assign a value to an array variable without
     using the compound assignment syntax (*note Arrays::), one of the
     NAMES is not a valid shell variable name, an attempt is made to
     turn off readonly status for a readonly variable, an attempt is
     made to turn off array status for an array variable, or an attempt
     is made to display a non-existent function with '-f'.

'echo'
          echo [-neE] [ARG ...]

     Output the ARGs, separated by spaces, terminated with a newline.
     The return status is 0 unless a write error occurs.  If '-n' is
     specified, the trailing newline is suppressed.  If the '-e' option
     is given, interpretation of the following backslash-escaped
     characters is enabled.  The '-E' option disables the interpretation
     of these escape characters, even on systems where they are
     interpreted by default.  The 'xpg_echo' shell option may be used to
     dynamically determine whether or not 'echo' expands these escape
     characters by default.  'echo' does not interpret '--' to mean the
     end of options.

     'echo' interprets the following escape sequences:
     '\a'
          alert (bell)
     '\b'
          backspace
     '\c'
          suppress further output
     '\e'
     '\E'
          escape
     '\f'
          form feed
     '\n'
          new line
     '\r'
          carriage return
     '\t'
          horizontal tab
     '\v'
          vertical tab
     '\\'
          backslash
     '\0NNN'
          the eight-bit character whose value is the octal value NNN
          (zero to three octal digits)
     '\xHH'
          the eight-bit character whose value is the hexadecimal value
          HH (one or two hex digits)
     '\uHHHH'
          the Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the
          hexadecimal value HHHH (one to four hex digits)
     '\UHHHHHHHH'
          the Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the
          hexadecimal value HHHHHHHH (one to eight hex digits)

'enable'
          enable [-a] [-dnps] [-f FILENAME] [NAME ...]

     Enable and disable builtin shell commands.  Disabling a builtin
     allows a disk command which has the same name as a shell builtin to
     be executed without specifying a full pathname, even though the
     shell normally searches for builtins before disk commands.  If '-n'
     is used, the NAMEs become disabled.  Otherwise NAMEs are enabled.
     For example, to use the 'test' binary found via '$PATH' instead of
     the shell builtin version, type 'enable -n test'.

     If the '-p' option is supplied, or no NAME arguments appear, a list
     of shell builtins is printed.  With no other arguments, the list
     consists of all enabled shell builtins.  The '-a' option means to
     list each builtin with an indication of whether or not it is
     enabled.

     The '-f' option means to load the new builtin command NAME from
     shared object FILENAME, on systems that support dynamic loading.
     The '-d' option will delete a builtin loaded with '-f'.

     If there are no options, a list of the shell builtins is displayed.
     The '-s' option restricts 'enable' to the POSIX special builtins.
     If '-s' is used with '-f', the new builtin becomes a special
     builtin (*note Special Builtins::).

     The return status is zero unless a NAME is not a shell builtin or
     there is an error loading a new builtin from a shared object.

'help'
          help [-dms] [PATTERN]

     Display helpful information about builtin commands.  If PATTERN is
     specified, 'help' gives detailed help on all commands matching
     PATTERN, otherwise a list of the builtins is printed.

     Options, if supplied, have the following meanings:

     '-d'
          Display a short description of each PATTERN
     '-m'
          Display the description of each PATTERN in a manpage-like
          format
     '-s'
          Display only a short usage synopsis for each PATTERN

     The return status is zero unless no command matches PATTERN.

'let'
          let EXPRESSION [EXPRESSION ...]

     The 'let' builtin allows arithmetic to be performed on shell
     variables.  Each EXPRESSION is evaluated according to the rules
     given below in *note Shell Arithmetic::.  If the last EXPRESSION
     evaluates to 0, 'let' returns 1; otherwise 0 is returned.

'local'
          local [OPTION] NAME[=VALUE] ...

     For each argument, a local variable named NAME is created, and
     assigned VALUE.  The OPTION can be any of the options accepted by
     'declare'.  'local' can only be used within a function; it makes
     the variable NAME have a visible scope restricted to that function
     and its children.  If NAME is '-', the set of shell options is made
     local to the function in which 'local' is invoked: shell options
     changed using the 'set' builtin inside the function are restored to
     their original values when the function returns.  The return status
     is zero unless 'local' is used outside a function, an invalid NAME
     is supplied, or NAME is a readonly variable.

'logout'
          logout [N]

     Exit a login shell, returning a status of N to the shell's parent.

'mapfile'
          mapfile [-d DELIM] [-n COUNT] [-O ORIGIN] [-s COUNT]
              [-t] [-u FD] [-C CALLBACK] [-c QUANTUM] [ARRAY]

     Read lines from the standard input into the indexed array variable
     ARRAY, or from file descriptor FD if the '-u' option is supplied.
     The variable 'MAPFILE' is the default ARRAY.  Options, if supplied,
     have the following meanings:

     '-d'
          The first character of DELIM is used to terminate each input
          line, rather than newline.  If DELIM is the empty string,
          'mapfile' will terminate a line when it reads a NUL character.
     '-n'
          Copy at most COUNT lines.  If COUNT is 0, all lines are
          copied.
     '-O'
          Begin assigning to ARRAY at index ORIGIN.  The default index
          is 0.
     '-s'
          Discard the first COUNT lines read.
     '-t'
          Remove a trailing DELIM (default newline) from each line read.
     '-u'
          Read lines from file descriptor FD instead of the standard
          input.
     '-C'
          Evaluate CALLBACK each time QUANTUM lines are read.  The '-c'
          option specifies QUANTUM.
     '-c'
          Specify the number of lines read between each call to
          CALLBACK.

     If '-C' is specified without '-c', the default quantum is 5000.
     When CALLBACK is evaluated, it is supplied the index of the next
     array element to be assigned and the line to be assigned to that
     element as additional arguments.  CALLBACK is evaluated after the
     line is read but before the array element is assigned.

     If not supplied with an explicit origin, 'mapfile' will clear ARRAY
     before assigning to it.

     'mapfile' returns successfully unless an invalid option or option
     argument is supplied, ARRAY is invalid or unassignable, or ARRAY is
     not an indexed array.

'printf'
          printf [-v VAR] FORMAT [ARGUMENTS]

     Write the formatted ARGUMENTS to the standard output under the
     control of the FORMAT.  The '-v' option causes the output to be
     assigned to the variable VAR rather than being printed to the
     standard output.

     The FORMAT is a character string which contains three types of
     objects: plain characters, which are simply copied to standard
     output, character escape sequences, which are converted and copied
     to the standard output, and format specifications, each of which
     causes printing of the next successive ARGUMENT.  In addition to
     the standard 'printf(1)' formats, 'printf' interprets the following
     extensions:

     '%b'
          Causes 'printf' to expand backslash escape sequences in the
          corresponding ARGUMENT in the same way as 'echo -e' (*note
          Bash Builtins::).
     '%q'
          Causes 'printf' to output the corresponding ARGUMENT in a
          format that can be reused as shell input.
     '%(DATEFMT)T'
          Causes 'printf' to output the date-time string resulting from
          using DATEFMT as a format string for 'strftime'(3).  The
          corresponding ARGUMENT is an integer representing the number
          of seconds since the epoch.  Two special argument values may
          be used: -1 represents the current time, and -2 represents the
          time the shell was invoked.  If no argument is specified,
          conversion behaves as if -1 had been given.  This is an
          exception to the usual 'printf' behavior.

     Arguments to non-string format specifiers are treated as C language
     constants, except that a leading plus or minus sign is allowed, and
     if the leading character is a single or double quote, the value is
     the ASCII value of the following character.

     The FORMAT is reused as necessary to consume all of the ARGUMENTS.
     If the FORMAT requires more ARGUMENTS than are supplied, the extra
     format specifications behave as if a zero value or null string, as
     appropriate, had been supplied.  The return value is zero on
     success, non-zero on failure.

'read'
          read [-ers] [-a ANAME] [-d DELIM] [-i TEXT] [-n NCHARS]
              [-N NCHARS] [-p PROMPT] [-t TIMEOUT] [-u FD] [NAME ...]

     One line is read from the standard input, or from the file
     descriptor FD supplied as an argument to the '-u' option, split
     into words as described above in *note Word Splitting::, and the
     first word is assigned to the first NAME, the second word to the
     second NAME, and so on.  If there are more words than names, the
     remaining words and their intervening delimiters are assigned to
     the last NAME.  If there are fewer words read from the input stream
     than names, the remaining names are assigned empty values.  The
     characters in the value of the 'IFS' variable are used to split the
     line into words using the same rules the shell uses for expansion
     (described above in *note Word Splitting::).  The backslash
     character '\' may be used to remove any special meaning for the
     next character read and for line continuation.  If no names are
     supplied, the line read is assigned to the variable 'REPLY'.  The
     exit status is zero, unless end-of-file is encountered, 'read'
     times out (in which case the status is greater than 128), a
     variable assignment error (such as assigning to a readonly
     variable) occurs, or an invalid file descriptor is supplied as the
     argument to '-u'.

     Options, if supplied, have the following meanings:

     '-a ANAME'
          The words are assigned to sequential indices of the array
          variable ANAME, starting at 0.  All elements are removed from
          ANAME before the assignment.  Other NAME arguments are
          ignored.

     '-d DELIM'
          The first character of DELIM is used to terminate the input
          line, rather than newline.  If DELIM is the empty string,
          'read' will terminate a line when it reads a NUL character.

     '-e'
          Readline (*note Command Line Editing::) is used to obtain the
          line.  Readline uses the current (or default, if line editing
          was not previously active) editing settings, but uses
          Readline's default filename completion.

     '-i TEXT'
          If Readline is being used to read the line, TEXT is placed
          into the editing buffer before editing begins.

     '-n NCHARS'
          'read' returns after reading NCHARS characters rather than
          waiting for a complete line of input, but honors a delimiter
          if fewer than NCHARS characters are read before the delimiter.

     '-N NCHARS'
          'read' returns after reading exactly NCHARS characters rather
          than waiting for a complete line of input, unless EOF is
          encountered or 'read' times out.  Delimiter characters
          encountered in the input are not treated specially and do not
          cause 'read' to return until NCHARS characters are read.  The
          result is not split on the characters in 'IFS'; the intent is
          that the variable is assigned exactly the characters read
          (with the exception of backslash; see the '-r' option below).

     '-p PROMPT'
          Display PROMPT, without a trailing newline, before attempting
          to read any input.  The prompt is displayed only if input is
          coming from a terminal.

     '-r'
          If this option is given, backslash does not act as an escape
          character.  The backslash is considered to be part of the
          line.  In particular, a backslash-newline pair may not then be
          used as a line continuation.

     '-s'
          Silent mode.  If input is coming from a terminal, characters
          are not echoed.

     '-t TIMEOUT'
          Cause 'read' to time out and return failure if a complete line
          of input (or a specified number of characters) is not read
          within TIMEOUT seconds.  TIMEOUT may be a decimal number with
          a fractional portion following the decimal point.  This option
          is only effective if 'read' is reading input from a terminal,
          pipe, or other special file; it has no effect when reading
          from regular files.  If 'read' times out, 'read' saves any
          partial input read into the specified variable NAME.  If
          TIMEOUT is 0, 'read' returns immediately, without trying to
          read and data.  The exit status is 0 if input is available on
          the specified file descriptor, non-zero otherwise.  The exit
          status is greater than 128 if the timeout is exceeded.

     '-u FD'
          Read input from file descriptor FD.

'readarray'
          readarray [-d DELIM] [-n COUNT] [-O ORIGIN] [-s COUNT]
              [-t] [-u FD] [-C CALLBACK] [-c QUANTUM] [ARRAY]

     Read lines from the standard input into the indexed array variable
     ARRAY, or from file descriptor FD if the '-u' option is supplied.

     A synonym for 'mapfile'.

'source'
          source FILENAME

     A synonym for '.' (*note Bourne Shell Builtins::).

'type'
          type [-afptP] [NAME ...]

     For each NAME, indicate how it would be interpreted if used as a
     command name.

     If the '-t' option is used, 'type' prints a single word which is
     one of 'alias', 'function', 'builtin', 'file' or 'keyword', if NAME
     is an alias, shell function, shell builtin, disk file, or shell
     reserved word, respectively.  If the NAME is not found, then
     nothing is printed, and 'type' returns a failure status.

     If the '-p' option is used, 'type' either returns the name of the
     disk file that would be executed, or nothing if '-t' would not
     return 'file'.

     The '-P' option forces a path search for each NAME, even if '-t'
     would not return 'file'.

     If a command is hashed, '-p' and '-P' print the hashed value, which
     is not necessarily the file that appears first in '$PATH'.

     If the '-a' option is used, 'type' returns all of the places that
     contain an executable named FILE.  This includes aliases and
     functions, if and only if the '-p' option is not also used.

     If the '-f' option is used, 'type' does not attempt to find shell
     functions, as with the 'command' builtin.

     The return status is zero if all of the NAMES are found, non-zero
     if any are not found.

'typeset'
          typeset [-afFgrxilnrtux] [-p] [NAME[=VALUE] ...]

     The 'typeset' command is supplied for compatibility with the Korn
     shell.  It is a synonym for the 'declare' builtin command.

'ulimit'
          ulimit [-HSabcdefiklmnpqrstuvxPT] [LIMIT]

     'ulimit' provides control over the resources available to processes
     started by the shell, on systems that allow such control.  If an
     option is given, it is interpreted as follows:

     '-S'
          Change and report the soft limit associated with a resource.

     '-H'
          Change and report the hard limit associated with a resource.

     '-a'
          All current limits are reported.

     '-b'
          The maximum socket buffer size.

     '-c'
          The maximum size of core files created.

     '-d'
          The maximum size of a process's data segment.

     '-e'
          The maximum scheduling priority ("nice").

     '-f'
          The maximum size of files written by the shell and its
          children.

     '-i'
          The maximum number of pending signals.

     '-k'
          The maximum number of kqueues that may be allocated.

     '-l'
          The maximum size that may be locked into memory.

     '-m'
          The maximum resident set size (many systems do not honor this
          limit).

     '-n'
          The maximum number of open file descriptors (most systems do
          not allow this value to be set).

     '-p'
          The pipe buffer size.

     '-q'
          The maximum number of bytes in POSIX message queues.

     '-r'
          The maximum real-time scheduling priority.

     '-s'
          The maximum stack size.

     '-t'
          The maximum amount of cpu time in seconds.

     '-u'
          The maximum number of processes available to a single user.

     '-v'
          The maximum amount of virtual memory available to the shell,
          and, on some systems, to its children.

     '-x'
          The maximum number of file locks.

     '-P'
          The maximum number of pseudoterminals.

     '-T'
          The maximum number of threads.

     If LIMIT is given, and the '-a' option is not used, LIMIT is the
     new value of the specified resource.  The special LIMIT values
     'hard', 'soft', and 'unlimited' stand for the current hard limit,
     the current soft limit, and no limit, respectively.  A hard limit
     cannot be increased by a non-root user once it is set; a soft limit
     may be increased up to the value of the hard limit.  Otherwise, the
     current value of the soft limit for the specified resource is
     printed, unless the '-H' option is supplied.  When setting new
     limits, if neither '-H' nor '-S' is supplied, both the hard and
     soft limits are set.  If no option is given, then '-f' is assumed.
     Values are in 1024-byte increments, except for '-t', which is in
     seconds; '-p', which is in units of 512-byte blocks; '-P', '-T',
     '-b', '-k', '-n' and '-u', which are unscaled values; and, when in
     POSIX Mode (*note Bash POSIX Mode::), '-c' and '-f', which are in
     512-byte increments.

     The return status is zero unless an invalid option or argument is
     supplied, or an error occurs while setting a new limit.

'unalias'
          unalias [-a] [NAME ... ]

     Remove each NAME from the list of aliases.  If '-a' is supplied,
     all aliases are removed.  Aliases are described in *note Aliases::.

File: bash.info,  Node: Modifying Shell Behavior,  Next: Special Builtins,  Prev: Bash Builtins,  Up: Shell Builtin Commands

