4.3 Modifying Shell Behavior
============================

* Menu:

* The Set Builtin::		Change the values of shell attributes and
				positional parameters.
* The Shopt Builtin::		Modify shell optional behavior.

File: bash.info,  Node: The Set Builtin,  Next: The Shopt Builtin,  Up: Modifying Shell Behavior

4.3.1 The Set Builtin
---------------------

This builtin is so complicated that it deserves its own section.  'set'
allows you to change the values of shell options and set the positional
parameters, or to display the names and values of shell variables.

'set'
          set [--abefhkmnptuvxBCEHPT] [-o OPTION-NAME] [ARGUMENT ...]
          set [+abefhkmnptuvxBCEHPT] [+o OPTION-NAME] [ARGUMENT ...]

     If no options or arguments are supplied, 'set' displays the names
     and values of all shell variables and functions, sorted according
     to the current locale, in a format that may be reused as input for
     setting or resetting the currently-set variables.  Read-only
     variables cannot be reset.  In POSIX mode, only shell variables are
     listed.

     When options are supplied, they set or unset shell attributes.
     Options, if specified, have the following meanings:

     '-a'
          Each variable or function that is created or modified is given
          the export attribute and marked for export to the environment
          of subsequent commands.

     '-b'
          Cause the status of terminated background jobs to be reported
          immediately, rather than before printing the next primary
          prompt.

     '-e'
          Exit immediately if a pipeline (*note Pipelines::), which may
          consist of a single simple command (*note Simple Commands::),
          a list (*note Lists::), or a compound command (*note Compound
          Commands::) returns a non-zero status.  The shell does not
          exit if the command that fails is part of the command list
          immediately following a 'while' or 'until' keyword, part of
          the test in an 'if' statement, part of any command executed in
          a '&&' or '||' list except the command following the final
          '&&' or '||', any command in a pipeline but the last, or if
          the command's return status is being inverted with '!'.  If a
          compound command other than a subshell returns a non-zero
          status because a command failed while '-e' was being ignored,
          the shell does not exit.  A trap on 'ERR', if set, is executed
          before the shell exits.

          This option applies to the shell environment and each subshell
          environment separately (*note Command Execution
          Environment::), and may cause subshells to exit before
          executing all the commands in the subshell.

          If a compound command or shell function executes in a context
          where '-e' is being ignored, none of the commands executed
          within the compound command or function body will be affected
          by the '-e' setting, even if '-e' is set and a command returns
          a failure status.  If a compound command or shell function
          sets '-e' while executing in a context where '-e' is ignored,
          that setting will not have any effect until the compound
          command or the command containing the function call completes.

     '-f'
          Disable filename expansion (globbing).

     '-h'
          Locate and remember (hash) commands as they are looked up for
          execution.  This option is enabled by default.

     '-k'
          All arguments in the form of assignment statements are placed
          in the environment for a command, not just those that precede
          the command name.

     '-m'
          Job control is enabled (*note Job Control::).  All processes
          run in a separate process group.  When a background job
          completes, the shell prints a line containing its exit status.

     '-n'
          Read commands but do not execute them.  This may be used to
          check a script for syntax errors.  This option is ignored by
          interactive shells.

     '-o OPTION-NAME'

          Set the option corresponding to OPTION-NAME:

          'allexport'
               Same as '-a'.

          'braceexpand'
               Same as '-B'.

          'emacs'
               Use an 'emacs'-style line editing interface (*note
               Command Line Editing::).  This also affects the editing
               interface used for 'read -e'.

          'errexit'
               Same as '-e'.

          'errtrace'
               Same as '-E'.

          'functrace'
               Same as '-T'.

          'hashall'
               Same as '-h'.

          'histexpand'
               Same as '-H'.

          'history'
               Enable command history, as described in *note Bash
               History Facilities::.  This option is on by default in
               interactive shells.

          'ignoreeof'
               An interactive shell will not exit upon reading EOF.

          'keyword'
               Same as '-k'.

          'monitor'
               Same as '-m'.

          'noclobber'
               Same as '-C'.

          'noexec'
               Same as '-n'.

          'noglob'
               Same as '-f'.

          'nolog'
               Currently ignored.

          'notify'
               Same as '-b'.

          'nounset'
               Same as '-u'.

          'onecmd'
               Same as '-t'.

          'physical'
               Same as '-P'.

          'pipefail'
               If set, the return value of a pipeline is the value of
               the last (rightmost) command to exit with a non-zero
               status, or zero if all commands in the pipeline exit
               successfully.  This option is disabled by default.

          'posix'
               Change the behavior of Bash where the default operation
               differs from the POSIX standard to match the standard
               (*note Bash POSIX Mode::).  This is intended to make Bash
               behave as a strict superset of that standard.

          'privileged'
               Same as '-p'.

          'verbose'
               Same as '-v'.

          'vi'
               Use a 'vi'-style line editing interface.  This also
               affects the editing interface used for 'read -e'.

          'xtrace'
               Same as '-x'.

     '-p'
          Turn on privileged mode.  In this mode, the '$BASH_ENV' and
          '$ENV' files are not processed, shell functions are not
          inherited from the environment, and the 'SHELLOPTS',
          'BASHOPTS', 'CDPATH' and 'GLOBIGNORE' variables, if they
          appear in the environment, are ignored.  If the shell is
          started with the effective user (group) id not equal to the
          real user (group) id, and the '-p' option is not supplied,
          these actions are taken and the effective user id is set to
          the real user id.  If the '-p' option is supplied at startup,
          the effective user id is not reset.  Turning this option off
          causes the effective user and group ids to be set to the real
          user and group ids.

     '-t'
          Exit after reading and executing one command.

     '-u'
          Treat unset variables and parameters other than the special
          parameters '@' or '*' as an error when performing parameter
          expansion.  An error message will be written to the standard
          error, and a non-interactive shell will exit.

     '-v'
          Print shell input lines as they are read.

     '-x'
          Print a trace of simple commands, 'for' commands, 'case'
          commands, 'select' commands, and arithmetic 'for' commands and
          their arguments or associated word lists after they are
          expanded and before they are executed.  The value of the 'PS4'
          variable is expanded and the resultant value is printed before
          the command and its expanded arguments.

     '-B'
          The shell will perform brace expansion (*note Brace
          Expansion::).  This option is on by default.

     '-C'
          Prevent output redirection using '>', '>&', and '<>' from
          overwriting existing files.

     '-E'
          If set, any trap on 'ERR' is inherited by shell functions,
          command substitutions, and commands executed in a subshell
          environment.  The 'ERR' trap is normally not inherited in such
          cases.

     '-H'
          Enable '!' style history substitution (*note History
          Interaction::).  This option is on by default for interactive
          shells.

     '-P'
          If set, do not resolve symbolic links when performing commands
          such as 'cd' which change the current directory.  The physical
          directory is used instead.  By default, Bash follows the
          logical chain of directories when performing commands which
          change the current directory.

          For example, if '/usr/sys' is a symbolic link to
          '/usr/local/sys' then:
               $ cd /usr/sys; echo $PWD
               /usr/sys
               $ cd ..; pwd
               /usr

          If 'set -P' is on, then:
               $ cd /usr/sys; echo $PWD
               /usr/local/sys
               $ cd ..; pwd
               /usr/local

     '-T'
          If set, any trap on 'DEBUG' and 'RETURN' are inherited by
          shell functions, command substitutions, and commands executed
          in a subshell environment.  The 'DEBUG' and 'RETURN' traps are
          normally not inherited in such cases.

     '--'
          If no arguments follow this option, then the positional
          parameters are unset.  Otherwise, the positional parameters
          are set to the ARGUMENTS, even if some of them begin with a
          '-'.

     '-'
          Signal the end of options, cause all remaining ARGUMENTS to be
          assigned to the positional parameters.  The '-x' and '-v'
          options are turned off.  If there are no arguments, the
          positional parameters remain unchanged.

     Using '+' rather than '-' causes these options to be turned off.
     The options can also be used upon invocation of the shell.  The
     current set of options may be found in '$-'.

     The remaining N ARGUMENTS are positional parameters and are
     assigned, in order, to '$1', '$2', ... '$N'.  The special parameter
     '#' is set to N.

     The return status is always zero unless an invalid option is
     supplied.

File: bash.info,  Node: The Shopt Builtin,  Prev: The Set Builtin,  Up: Modifying Shell Behavior

4.3.2 The Shopt Builtin
-----------------------

This builtin allows you to change additional shell optional behavior.

'shopt'
          shopt [-pqsu] [-o] [OPTNAME ...]

     Toggle the values of settings controlling optional shell behavior.
     The settings can be either those listed below, or, if the '-o'
     option is used, those available with the '-o' option to the 'set'
     builtin command (*note The Set Builtin::).  With no options, or
     with the '-p' option, a list of all settable options is displayed,
     with an indication of whether or not each is set; if OPTNAMES are
     supplied, the output is restricted to those options.  The '-p'
     option causes output to be displayed in a form that may be reused
     as input.  Other options have the following meanings:

     '-s'
          Enable (set) each OPTNAME.

     '-u'
          Disable (unset) each OPTNAME.

     '-q'
          Suppresses normal output; the return status indicates whether
          the OPTNAME is set or unset.  If multiple OPTNAME arguments
          are given with '-q', the return status is zero if all OPTNAMES
          are enabled; non-zero otherwise.

     '-o'
          Restricts the values of OPTNAME to be those defined for the
          '-o' option to the 'set' builtin (*note The Set Builtin::).

     If either '-s' or '-u' is used with no OPTNAME arguments, 'shopt'
     shows only those options which are set or unset, respectively.

     Unless otherwise noted, the 'shopt' options are disabled (off) by
     default.

     The return status when listing options is zero if all OPTNAMES are
     enabled, non-zero otherwise.  When setting or unsetting options,
     the return status is zero unless an OPTNAME is not a valid shell
     option.

     The list of 'shopt' options is:

     'assoc_expand_once'
          If set, the shell suppresses multiple evaluation of
          associative array subscripts during arithmetic expression
          evaluation, while executing builtins that can perform variable
          assignments, and while executing builtins that perform array
          dereferencing.

     'autocd'
          If set, a command name that is the name of a directory is
          executed as if it were the argument to the 'cd' command.  This
          option is only used by interactive shells.

     'cdable_vars'
          If this is set, an argument to the 'cd' builtin command that
          is not a directory is assumed to be the name of a variable
          whose value is the directory to change to.

     'cdspell'
          If set, minor errors in the spelling of a directory component
          in a 'cd' command will be corrected.  The errors checked for
          are transposed characters, a missing character, and a
          character too many.  If a correction is found, the corrected
          path is printed, and the command proceeds.  This option is
          only used by interactive shells.

     'checkhash'
          If this is set, Bash checks that a command found in the hash
          table exists before trying to execute it.  If a hashed command
          no longer exists, a normal path search is performed.

     'checkjobs'
          If set, Bash lists the status of any stopped and running jobs
          before exiting an interactive shell.  If any jobs are running,
          this causes the exit to be deferred until a second exit is
          attempted without an intervening command (*note Job
          Control::).  The shell always postpones exiting if any jobs
          are stopped.

     'checkwinsize'
          If set, Bash checks the window size after each external
          (non-builtin) command and, if necessary, updates the values of
          'LINES' and 'COLUMNS'.  This option is enabled by default.

     'cmdhist'
          If set, Bash attempts to save all lines of a multiple-line
          command in the same history entry.  This allows easy
          re-editing of multi-line commands.  This option is enabled by
          default, but only has an effect if command history is enabled
          (*note Bash History Facilities::).

     'compat31'
          If set, Bash changes its behavior to that of version 3.1 with
          respect to quoted arguments to the conditional command's '=~'
          operator and with respect to locale-specific string comparison
          when using the '[[' conditional command's '<' and '>'
          operators.  Bash versions prior to bash-4.1 use ASCII
          collation and strcmp(3); bash-4.1 and later use the current
          locale's collation sequence and strcoll(3).

     'compat32'
          If set, Bash changes its behavior to that of version 3.2 with
          respect to locale-specific string comparison when using the
          '[[' conditional command's '<' and '>' operators (see previous
          item) and the effect of interrupting a command list.  Bash
          versions 3.2 and earlier continue with the next command in the
          list after one terminates due to an interrupt.

     'compat40'
          If set, Bash changes its behavior to that of version 4.0 with
          respect to locale-specific string comparison when using the
          '[[' conditional command's '<' and '>' operators (see
          description of 'compat31') and the effect of interrupting a
          command list.  Bash versions 4.0 and later interrupt the list
          as if the shell received the interrupt; previous versions
          continue with the next command in the list.

     'compat41'
          If set, Bash, when in POSIX mode, treats a single quote in a
          double-quoted parameter expansion as a special character.  The
          single quotes must match (an even number) and the characters
          between the single quotes are considered quoted.  This is the
          behavior of POSIX mode through version 4.1.  The default Bash
          behavior remains as in previous versions.

     'compat42'
          If set, Bash does not process the replacement string in the
          pattern substitution word expansion using quote removal.

     'compat43'
          If set, Bash does not print a warning message if an attempt is
          made to use a quoted compound array assignment as an argument
          to 'declare', makes word expansion errors non-fatal errors
          that cause the current command to fail (the default behavior
          is to make them fatal errors that cause the shell to exit),
          and does not reset the loop state when a shell function is
          executed (this allows 'break' or 'continue' in a shell
          function to affect loops in the caller's context).

     'compat44'
          If set, Bash saves the positional parameters to BASH_ARGV and
          BASH_ARGC before they are used, regardless of whether or not
          extended debugging mode is enabled.

     'complete_fullquote'
          If set, Bash quotes all shell metacharacters in filenames and
          directory names when performing completion.  If not set, Bash
          removes metacharacters such as the dollar sign from the set of
          characters that will be quoted in completed filenames when
          these metacharacters appear in shell variable references in
          words to be completed.  This means that dollar signs in
          variable names that expand to directories will not be quoted;
          however, any dollar signs appearing in filenames will not be
          quoted, either.  This is active only when bash is using
          backslashes to quote completed filenames.  This variable is
          set by default, which is the default Bash behavior in versions
          through 4.2.

     'direxpand'
          If set, Bash replaces directory names with the results of word
          expansion when performing filename completion.  This changes
          the contents of the readline editing buffer.  If not set, Bash
          attempts to preserve what the user typed.

     'dirspell'
          If set, Bash attempts spelling correction on directory names
          during word completion if the directory name initially
          supplied does not exist.

     'dotglob'
          If set, Bash includes filenames beginning with a '.'  in the
          results of filename expansion.  The filenames '.' and '..'
          must always be matched explicitly, even if 'dotglob' is set.

     'execfail'
          If this is set, a non-interactive shell will not exit if it
          cannot execute the file specified as an argument to the 'exec'
          builtin command.  An interactive shell does not exit if 'exec'
          fails.

     'expand_aliases'
          If set, aliases are expanded as described below under Aliases,
          *note Aliases::.  This option is enabled by default for
          interactive shells.

     'extdebug'
          If set at shell invocation, arrange to execute the debugger
          profile before the shell starts, identical to the '--debugger'
          option.  If set after invocation, behavior intended for use by
          debuggers is enabled:

            1. The '-F' option to the 'declare' builtin (*note Bash
               Builtins::) displays the source file name and line number
               corresponding to each function name supplied as an
               argument.

            2. If the command run by the 'DEBUG' trap returns a non-zero
               value, the next command is skipped and not executed.

            3. If the command run by the 'DEBUG' trap returns a value of
               2, and the shell is executing in a subroutine (a shell
               function or a shell script executed by the '.' or
               'source' builtins), the shell simulates a call to
               'return'.

            4. 'BASH_ARGC' and 'BASH_ARGV' are updated as described in
               their descriptions (*note Bash Variables::).

            5. Function tracing is enabled: command substitution, shell
               functions, and subshells invoked with '( COMMAND )'
               inherit the 'DEBUG' and 'RETURN' traps.

            6. Error tracing is enabled: command substitution, shell
               functions, and subshells invoked with '( COMMAND )'
               inherit the 'ERR' trap.

     'extglob'
          If set, the extended pattern matching features described above
          (*note Pattern Matching::) are enabled.

     'extquote'
          If set, '$'STRING'' and '$"STRING"' quoting is performed
          within '${PARAMETER}' expansions enclosed in double quotes.
          This option is enabled by default.

     'failglob'
          If set, patterns which fail to match filenames during filename
          expansion result in an expansion error.

     'force_fignore'
          If set, the suffixes specified by the 'FIGNORE' shell variable
          cause words to be ignored when performing word completion even
          if the ignored words are the only possible completions.  *Note
          Bash Variables::, for a description of 'FIGNORE'.  This option
          is enabled by default.

     'globasciiranges'
          If set, range expressions used in pattern matching bracket
          expressions (*note Pattern Matching::) behave as if in the
          traditional C locale when performing comparisons.  That is,
          the current locale's collating sequence is not taken into
          account, so 'b' will not collate between 'A' and 'B', and
          upper-case and lower-case ASCII characters will collate
          together.

     'globstar'
          If set, the pattern '**' used in a filename expansion context
          will match all files and zero or more directories and
          subdirectories.  If the pattern is followed by a '/', only
          directories and subdirectories match.

     'gnu_errfmt'
          If set, shell error messages are written in the standard GNU
          error message format.

     'histappend'
          If set, the history list is appended to the file named by the
          value of the 'HISTFILE' variable when the shell exits, rather
          than overwriting the file.

     'histreedit'
          If set, and Readline is being used, a user is given the
          opportunity to re-edit a failed history substitution.

     'histverify'
          If set, and Readline is being used, the results of history
          substitution are not immediately passed to the shell parser.
          Instead, the resulting line is loaded into the Readline
          editing buffer, allowing further modification.

     'hostcomplete'
          If set, and Readline is being used, Bash will attempt to
          perform hostname completion when a word containing a '@' is
          being completed (*note Commands For Completion::).  This
          option is enabled by default.

     'huponexit'
          If set, Bash will send 'SIGHUP' to all jobs when an
          interactive login shell exits (*note Signals::).

     'inherit_errexit'
          If set, command substitution inherits the value of the
          'errexit' option, instead of unsetting it in the subshell
          environment.  This option is enabled when POSIX mode is
          enabled.

     'interactive_comments'
          Allow a word beginning with '#' to cause that word and all
          remaining characters on that line to be ignored in an
          interactive shell.  This option is enabled by default.

     'lastpipe'
          If set, and job control is not active, the shell runs the last
          command of a pipeline not executed in the background in the
          current shell environment.

     'lithist'
          If enabled, and the 'cmdhist' option is enabled, multi-line
          commands are saved to the history with embedded newlines
          rather than using semicolon separators where possible.

     'localvar_inherit'
          If set, local variables inherit the value and attributes of a
          variable of the same name that exists at a previous scope
          before any new value is assigned.  The NAMEREF attribute is
          not inherited.

     'localvar_unset'
          If set, calling 'unset' on local variables in previous
          function scopes marks them so subsequent lookups find them
          unset until that function returns.  This is identical to the
          behavior of unsetting local variables at the current function
          scope.

     'login_shell'
          The shell sets this option if it is started as a login shell
          (*note Invoking Bash::).  The value may not be changed.

     'mailwarn'
          If set, and a file that Bash is checking for mail has been
          accessed since the last time it was checked, the message '"The
          mail in MAILFILE has been read"' is displayed.

     'no_empty_cmd_completion'
          If set, and Readline is being used, Bash will not attempt to
          search the 'PATH' for possible completions when completion is
          attempted on an empty line.

     'nocaseglob'
          If set, Bash matches filenames in a case-insensitive fashion
          when performing filename expansion.

     'nocasematch'
          If set, Bash matches patterns in a case-insensitive fashion
          when performing matching while executing 'case' or '[['
          conditional commands, when performing pattern substitution
          word expansions, or when filtering possible completions as
          part of programmable completion.

     'nullglob'
          If set, Bash allows filename patterns which match no files to
          expand to a null string, rather than themselves.

     'progcomp'
          If set, the programmable completion facilities (*note
          Programmable Completion::) are enabled.  This option is
          enabled by default.

     'progcomp_alias'
          If set, and programmable completion is enabled, Bash treats a
          command name that doesn't have any completions as a possible
          alias and attempts alias expansion.  If it has an alias, Bash
          attempts programmable completion using the command word
          resulting from the expanded alias.

     'promptvars'
          If set, prompt strings undergo parameter expansion, command
          substitution, arithmetic expansion, and quote removal after
          being expanded as described below (*note Controlling the
          Prompt::).  This option is enabled by default.

     'restricted_shell'
          The shell sets this option if it is started in restricted mode
          (*note The Restricted Shell::).  The value may not be changed.
          This is not reset when the startup files are executed,
          allowing the startup files to discover whether or not a shell
          is restricted.

     'shift_verbose'
          If this is set, the 'shift' builtin prints an error message
          when the shift count exceeds the number of positional
          parameters.

     'sourcepath'
          If set, the 'source' builtin uses the value of 'PATH' to find
          the directory containing the file supplied as an argument.
          This option is enabled by default.

     'xpg_echo'
          If set, the 'echo' builtin expands backslash-escape sequences
          by default.

     The return status when listing options is zero if all OPTNAMES are
     enabled, non-zero otherwise.  When setting or unsetting options,
     the return status is zero unless an OPTNAME is not a valid shell
     option.

File: bash.info,  Node: Special Builtins,  Prev: Modifying Shell Behavior,  Up: Shell Builtin Commands

