8.4 Bindable Readline Commands
==============================

* Menu:

* Commands For Moving::		Moving about the line.
* Commands For History::	Getting at previous lines.
* Commands For Text::		Commands for changing text.
* Commands For Killing::	Commands for killing and yanking.
* Numeric Arguments::		Specifying numeric arguments, repeat counts.
* Commands For Completion::	Getting Readline to do the typing for you.
* Keyboard Macros::		Saving and re-executing typed characters
* Miscellaneous Commands::	Other miscellaneous commands.

This section describes Readline commands that may be bound to key
sequences.  You can list your key bindings by executing 'bind -P' or,
for a more terse format, suitable for an INPUTRC file, 'bind -p'.
(*Note Bash Builtins::.)  Command names without an accompanying key
sequence are unbound by default.

   In the following descriptions, "point" refers to the current cursor
position, and "mark" refers to a cursor position saved by the 'set-mark'
command.  The text between the point and mark is referred to as the
"region".

File: bash.info,  Node: Commands For Moving,  Next: Commands For History,  Up: Bindable Readline Commands

8.4.1 Commands For Moving
-------------------------

'beginning-of-line (C-a)'
     Move to the start of the current line.

'end-of-line (C-e)'
     Move to the end of the line.

'forward-char (C-f)'
     Move forward a character.

'backward-char (C-b)'
     Move back a character.

'forward-word (M-f)'
     Move forward to the end of the next word.  Words are composed of
     letters and digits.

'backward-word (M-b)'
     Move back to the start of the current or previous word.  Words are
     composed of letters and digits.

'shell-forward-word ()'
     Move forward to the end of the next word.  Words are delimited by
     non-quoted shell metacharacters.

'shell-backward-word ()'
     Move back to the start of the current or previous word.  Words are
     delimited by non-quoted shell metacharacters.

'previous-screen-line ()'
     Attempt to move point to the same physical screen column on the
     previous physical screen line.  This will not have the desired
     effect if the current Readline line does not take up more than one
     physical line or if point is not greater than the length of the
     prompt plus the screen width.

'next-screen-line ()'
     Attempt to move point to the same physical screen column on the
     next physical screen line.  This will not have the desired effect
     if the current Readline line does not take up more than one
     physical line or if the length of the current Readline line is not
     greater than the length of the prompt plus the screen width.

'clear-screen (C-l)'
     Clear the screen and redraw the current line, leaving the current
     line at the top of the screen.

'redraw-current-line ()'
     Refresh the current line.  By default, this is unbound.

File: bash.info,  Node: Commands For History,  Next: Commands For Text,  Prev: Commands For Moving,  Up: Bindable Readline Commands

8.4.2 Commands For Manipulating The History
-------------------------------------------

'accept-line (Newline or Return)'
     Accept the line regardless of where the cursor is.  If this line is
     non-empty, add it to the history list according to the setting of
     the 'HISTCONTROL' and 'HISTIGNORE' variables.  If this line is a
     modified history line, then restore the history line to its
     original state.

'previous-history (C-p)'
     Move 'back' through the history list, fetching the previous
     command.

'next-history (C-n)'
     Move 'forward' through the history list, fetching the next command.

'beginning-of-history (M-<)'
     Move to the first line in the history.

'end-of-history (M->)'
     Move to the end of the input history, i.e., the line currently
     being entered.

'reverse-search-history (C-r)'
     Search backward starting at the current line and moving 'up'
     through the history as necessary.  This is an incremental search.

'forward-search-history (C-s)'
     Search forward starting at the current line and moving 'down'
     through the history as necessary.  This is an incremental search.

'non-incremental-reverse-search-history (M-p)'
     Search backward starting at the current line and moving 'up'
     through the history as necessary using a non-incremental search for
     a string supplied by the user.  The search string may match
     anywhere in a history line.

'non-incremental-forward-search-history (M-n)'
     Search forward starting at the current line and moving 'down'
     through the history as necessary using a non-incremental search for
     a string supplied by the user.  The search string may match
     anywhere in a history line.

'history-search-forward ()'
     Search forward through the history for the string of characters
     between the start of the current line and the point.  The search
     string must match at the beginning of a history line.  This is a
     non-incremental search.  By default, this command is unbound.

'history-search-backward ()'
     Search backward through the history for the string of characters
     between the start of the current line and the point.  The search
     string must match at the beginning of a history line.  This is a
     non-incremental search.  By default, this command is unbound.

'history-substring-search-forward ()'
     Search forward through the history for the string of characters
     between the start of the current line and the point.  The search
     string may match anywhere in a history line.  This is a
     non-incremental search.  By default, this command is unbound.

'history-substring-search-backward ()'
     Search backward through the history for the string of characters
     between the start of the current line and the point.  The search
     string may match anywhere in a history line.  This is a
     non-incremental search.  By default, this command is unbound.

'yank-nth-arg (M-C-y)'
     Insert the first argument to the previous command (usually the
     second word on the previous line) at point.  With an argument N,
     insert the Nth word from the previous command (the words in the
     previous command begin with word 0).  A negative argument inserts
     the Nth word from the end of the previous command.  Once the
     argument N is computed, the argument is extracted as if the '!N'
     history expansion had been specified.

'yank-last-arg (M-. or M-_)'
     Insert last argument to the previous command (the last word of the
     previous history entry).  With a numeric argument, behave exactly
     like 'yank-nth-arg'.  Successive calls to 'yank-last-arg' move back
     through the history list, inserting the last word (or the word
     specified by the argument to the first call) of each line in turn.
     Any numeric argument supplied to these successive calls determines
     the direction to move through the history.  A negative argument
     switches the direction through the history (back or forward).  The
     history expansion facilities are used to extract the last argument,
     as if the '!$' history expansion had been specified.

File: bash.info,  Node: Commands For Text,  Next: Commands For Killing,  Prev: Commands For History,  Up: Bindable Readline Commands

8.4.3 Commands For Changing Text
--------------------------------

'end-of-file (usually C-d)'
     The character indicating end-of-file as set, for example, by
     'stty'.  If this character is read when there are no characters on
     the line, and point is at the beginning of the line, Readline
     interprets it as the end of input and returns EOF.

'delete-char (C-d)'
     Delete the character at point.  If this function is bound to the
     same character as the tty EOF character, as 'C-d' commonly is, see
     above for the effects.

'backward-delete-char (Rubout)'
     Delete the character behind the cursor.  A numeric argument means
     to kill the characters instead of deleting them.

'forward-backward-delete-char ()'
     Delete the character under the cursor, unless the cursor is at the
     end of the line, in which case the character behind the cursor is
     deleted.  By default, this is not bound to a key.

'quoted-insert (C-q or C-v)'
     Add the next character typed to the line verbatim.  This is how to
     insert key sequences like 'C-q', for example.

'self-insert (a, b, A, 1, !, ...)'
     Insert yourself.

'bracketed-paste-begin ()'
     This function is intended to be bound to the "bracketed paste"
     escape sequence sent by some terminals, and such a binding is
     assigned by default.  It allows Readline to insert the pasted text
     as a single unit without treating each character as if it had been
     read from the keyboard.  The characters are inserted as if each one
     was bound to 'self-insert' instead of executing any editing
     commands.

'transpose-chars (C-t)'
     Drag the character before the cursor forward over the character at
     the cursor, moving the cursor forward as well.  If the insertion
     point is at the end of the line, then this transposes the last two
     characters of the line.  Negative arguments have no effect.

'transpose-words (M-t)'
     Drag the word before point past the word after point, moving point
     past that word as well.  If the insertion point is at the end of
     the line, this transposes the last two words on the line.

'upcase-word (M-u)'
     Uppercase the current (or following) word.  With a negative
     argument, uppercase the previous word, but do not move the cursor.

'downcase-word (M-l)'
     Lowercase the current (or following) word.  With a negative
     argument, lowercase the previous word, but do not move the cursor.

'capitalize-word (M-c)'
     Capitalize the current (or following) word.  With a negative
     argument, capitalize the previous word, but do not move the cursor.

'overwrite-mode ()'
     Toggle overwrite mode.  With an explicit positive numeric argument,
     switches to overwrite mode.  With an explicit non-positive numeric
     argument, switches to insert mode.  This command affects only
     'emacs' mode; 'vi' mode does overwrite differently.  Each call to
     'readline()' starts in insert mode.

     In overwrite mode, characters bound to 'self-insert' replace the
     text at point rather than pushing the text to the right.
     Characters bound to 'backward-delete-char' replace the character
     before point with a space.

     By default, this command is unbound.

File: bash.info,  Node: Commands For Killing,  Next: Numeric Arguments,  Prev: Commands For Text,  Up: Bindable Readline Commands

8.4.4 Killing And Yanking
-------------------------

'kill-line (C-k)'
     Kill the text from point to the end of the line.

'backward-kill-line (C-x Rubout)'
     Kill backward from the cursor to the beginning of the current line.

'unix-line-discard (C-u)'
     Kill backward from the cursor to the beginning of the current line.

'kill-whole-line ()'
     Kill all characters on the current line, no matter where point is.
     By default, this is unbound.

'kill-word (M-d)'
     Kill from point to the end of the current word, or if between
     words, to the end of the next word.  Word boundaries are the same
     as 'forward-word'.

'backward-kill-word (M-<DEL>)'
     Kill the word behind point.  Word boundaries are the same as
     'backward-word'.

'shell-kill-word ()'
     Kill from point to the end of the current word, or if between
     words, to the end of the next word.  Word boundaries are the same
     as 'shell-forward-word'.

'shell-backward-kill-word ()'
     Kill the word behind point.  Word boundaries are the same as
     'shell-backward-word'.

'unix-word-rubout (C-w)'
     Kill the word behind point, using white space as a word boundary.
     The killed text is saved on the kill-ring.

'unix-filename-rubout ()'
     Kill the word behind point, using white space and the slash
     character as the word boundaries.  The killed text is saved on the
     kill-ring.

'delete-horizontal-space ()'
     Delete all spaces and tabs around point.  By default, this is
     unbound.

'kill-region ()'
     Kill the text in the current region.  By default, this command is
     unbound.

'copy-region-as-kill ()'
     Copy the text in the region to the kill buffer, so it can be yanked
     right away.  By default, this command is unbound.

'copy-backward-word ()'
     Copy the word before point to the kill buffer.  The word boundaries
     are the same as 'backward-word'.  By default, this command is
     unbound.

'copy-forward-word ()'
     Copy the word following point to the kill buffer.  The word
     boundaries are the same as 'forward-word'.  By default, this
     command is unbound.

'yank (C-y)'
     Yank the top of the kill ring into the buffer at point.

'yank-pop (M-y)'
     Rotate the kill-ring, and yank the new top.  You can only do this
     if the prior command is 'yank' or 'yank-pop'.

File: bash.info,  Node: Numeric Arguments,  Next: Commands For Completion,  Prev: Commands For Killing,  Up: Bindable Readline Commands

8.4.5 Specifying Numeric Arguments
----------------------------------

'digit-argument (M-0, M-1, ... M--)'
     Add this digit to the argument already accumulating, or start a new
     argument.  'M--' starts a negative argument.

'universal-argument ()'
     This is another way to specify an argument.  If this command is
     followed by one or more digits, optionally with a leading minus
     sign, those digits define the argument.  If the command is followed
     by digits, executing 'universal-argument' again ends the numeric
     argument, but is otherwise ignored.  As a special case, if this
     command is immediately followed by a character that is neither a
     digit nor minus sign, the argument count for the next command is
     multiplied by four.  The argument count is initially one, so
     executing this function the first time makes the argument count
     four, a second time makes the argument count sixteen, and so on.
     By default, this is not bound to a key.

File: bash.info,  Node: Commands For Completion,  Next: Keyboard Macros,  Prev: Numeric Arguments,  Up: Bindable Readline Commands

8.4.6 Letting Readline Type For You
-----------------------------------

'complete (<TAB>)'
     Attempt to perform completion on the text before point.  The actual
     completion performed is application-specific.  Bash attempts
     completion treating the text as a variable (if the text begins with
     '$'), username (if the text begins with '~'), hostname (if the text
     begins with '@'), or command (including aliases and functions) in
     turn.  If none of these produces a match, filename completion is
     attempted.

'possible-completions (M-?)'
     List the possible completions of the text before point.  When
     displaying completions, Readline sets the number of columns used
     for display to the value of 'completion-display-width', the value
     of the environment variable 'COLUMNS', or the screen width, in that
     order.

'insert-completions (M-*)'
     Insert all completions of the text before point that would have
     been generated by 'possible-completions'.

'menu-complete ()'
     Similar to 'complete', but replaces the word to be completed with a
     single match from the list of possible completions.  Repeated
     execution of 'menu-complete' steps through the list of possible
     completions, inserting each match in turn.  At the end of the list
     of completions, the bell is rung (subject to the setting of
     'bell-style') and the original text is restored.  An argument of N
     moves N positions forward in the list of matches; a negative
     argument may be used to move backward through the list.  This
     command is intended to be bound to <TAB>, but is unbound by
     default.

'menu-complete-backward ()'
     Identical to 'menu-complete', but moves backward through the list
     of possible completions, as if 'menu-complete' had been given a
     negative argument.

'delete-char-or-list ()'
     Deletes the character under the cursor if not at the beginning or
     end of the line (like 'delete-char').  If at the end of the line,
     behaves identically to 'possible-completions'.  This command is
     unbound by default.

'complete-filename (M-/)'
     Attempt filename completion on the text before point.

'possible-filename-completions (C-x /)'
     List the possible completions of the text before point, treating it
     as a filename.

'complete-username (M-~)'
     Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a
     username.

'possible-username-completions (C-x ~)'
     List the possible completions of the text before point, treating it
     as a username.

'complete-variable (M-$)'
     Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a shell
     variable.

'possible-variable-completions (C-x $)'
     List the possible completions of the text before point, treating it
     as a shell variable.

'complete-hostname (M-@)'
     Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a
     hostname.

'possible-hostname-completions (C-x @)'
     List the possible completions of the text before point, treating it
     as a hostname.

'complete-command (M-!)'
     Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a
     command name.  Command completion attempts to match the text
     against aliases, reserved words, shell functions, shell builtins,
     and finally executable filenames, in that order.

'possible-command-completions (C-x !)'
     List the possible completions of the text before point, treating it
     as a command name.

'dynamic-complete-history (M-<TAB>)'
     Attempt completion on the text before point, comparing the text
     against lines from the history list for possible completion
     matches.

'dabbrev-expand ()'
     Attempt menu completion on the text before point, comparing the
     text against lines from the history list for possible completion
     matches.

'complete-into-braces (M-{)'
     Perform filename completion and insert the list of possible
     completions enclosed within braces so the list is available to the
     shell (*note Brace Expansion::).

File: bash.info,  Node: Keyboard Macros,  Next: Miscellaneous Commands,  Prev: Commands For Completion,  Up: Bindable Readline Commands

8.4.7 Keyboard Macros
---------------------

'start-kbd-macro (C-x ()'
     Begin saving the characters typed into the current keyboard macro.

'end-kbd-macro (C-x ))'
     Stop saving the characters typed into the current keyboard macro
     and save the definition.

'call-last-kbd-macro (C-x e)'
     Re-execute the last keyboard macro defined, by making the
     characters in the macro appear as if typed at the keyboard.

'print-last-kbd-macro ()'
     Print the last keboard macro defined in a format suitable for the
     INPUTRC file.

File: bash.info,  Node: Miscellaneous Commands,  Prev: Keyboard Macros,  Up: Bindable Readline Commands

8.4.8 Some Miscellaneous Commands
---------------------------------

're-read-init-file (C-x C-r)'
     Read in the contents of the INPUTRC file, and incorporate any
     bindings or variable assignments found there.

'abort (C-g)'
     Abort the current editing command and ring the terminal's bell
     (subject to the setting of 'bell-style').

'do-lowercase-version (M-A, M-B, M-X, ...)'
     If the metafied character X is upper case, run the command that is
     bound to the corresponding metafied lower case character.  The
     behavior is undefined if X is already lower case.

'prefix-meta (<ESC>)'
     Metafy the next character typed.  This is for keyboards without a
     meta key.  Typing '<ESC> f' is equivalent to typing 'M-f'.

'undo (C-_ or C-x C-u)'
     Incremental undo, separately remembered for each line.

'revert-line (M-r)'
     Undo all changes made to this line.  This is like executing the
     'undo' command enough times to get back to the beginning.

'tilde-expand (M-&)'
     Perform tilde expansion on the current word.

'set-mark (C-@)'
     Set the mark to the point.  If a numeric argument is supplied, the
     mark is set to that position.

'exchange-point-and-mark (C-x C-x)'
     Swap the point with the mark.  The current cursor position is set
     to the saved position, and the old cursor position is saved as the
     mark.

'character-search (C-])'
     A character is read and point is moved to the next occurrence of
     that character.  A negative count searches for previous
     occurrences.

'character-search-backward (M-C-])'
     A character is read and point is moved to the previous occurrence
     of that character.  A negative count searches for subsequent
     occurrences.

'skip-csi-sequence ()'
     Read enough characters to consume a multi-key sequence such as
     those defined for keys like Home and End.  Such sequences begin
     with a Control Sequence Indicator (CSI), usually ESC-[.  If this
     sequence is bound to "\e[", keys producing such sequences will have
     no effect unless explicitly bound to a readline command, instead of
     inserting stray characters into the editing buffer.  This is
     unbound by default, but usually bound to ESC-[.

'insert-comment (M-#)'
     Without a numeric argument, the value of the 'comment-begin'
     variable is inserted at the beginning of the current line.  If a
     numeric argument is supplied, this command acts as a toggle: if the
     characters at the beginning of the line do not match the value of
     'comment-begin', the value is inserted, otherwise the characters in
     'comment-begin' are deleted from the beginning of the line.  In
     either case, the line is accepted as if a newline had been typed.
     The default value of 'comment-begin' causes this command to make
     the current line a shell comment.  If a numeric argument causes the
     comment character to be removed, the line will be executed by the
     shell.

'dump-functions ()'
     Print all of the functions and their key bindings to the Readline
     output stream.  If a numeric argument is supplied, the output is
     formatted in such a way that it can be made part of an INPUTRC
     file.  This command is unbound by default.

'dump-variables ()'
     Print all of the settable variables and their values to the
     Readline output stream.  If a numeric argument is supplied, the
     output is formatted in such a way that it can be made part of an
     INPUTRC file.  This command is unbound by default.

'dump-macros ()'
     Print all of the Readline key sequences bound to macros and the
     strings they output.  If a numeric argument is supplied, the output
     is formatted in such a way that it can be made part of an INPUTRC
     file.  This command is unbound by default.

'glob-complete-word (M-g)'
     The word before point is treated as a pattern for pathname
     expansion, with an asterisk implicitly appended.  This pattern is
     used to generate a list of matching file names for possible
     completions.

'glob-expand-word (C-x *)'
     The word before point is treated as a pattern for pathname
     expansion, and the list of matching file names is inserted,
     replacing the word.  If a numeric argument is supplied, a '*' is
     appended before pathname expansion.

'glob-list-expansions (C-x g)'
     The list of expansions that would have been generated by
     'glob-expand-word' is displayed, and the line is redrawn.  If a
     numeric argument is supplied, a '*' is appended before pathname
     expansion.

'display-shell-version (C-x C-v)'
     Display version information about the current instance of Bash.

'shell-expand-line (M-C-e)'
     Expand the line as the shell does.  This performs alias and history
     expansion as well as all of the shell word expansions (*note Shell
     Expansions::).

'history-expand-line (M-^)'
     Perform history expansion on the current line.

'magic-space ()'
     Perform history expansion on the current line and insert a space
     (*note History Interaction::).

'alias-expand-line ()'
     Perform alias expansion on the current line (*note Aliases::).

'history-and-alias-expand-line ()'
     Perform history and alias expansion on the current line.

'insert-last-argument (M-. or M-_)'
     A synonym for 'yank-last-arg'.

'operate-and-get-next (C-o)'
     Accept the current line for execution and fetch the next line
     relative to the current line from the history for editing.  A
     numeric argument, if supplied, specifies the history entry to use
     instead of the current line.

'edit-and-execute-command (C-x C-e)'
     Invoke an editor on the current command line, and execute the
     result as shell commands.  Bash attempts to invoke '$VISUAL',
     '$EDITOR', and 'emacs' as the editor, in that order.

File: bash.info,  Node: Readline vi Mode,  Next: Programmable Completion,  Prev: Bindable Readline Commands,  Up: Command Line Editing

