*23.3*	Encryption

Some information you prefer to keep to yourself.  For example, when writing
a test on a computer that students also use.  You don't want clever students
to figure out a way to read the questions before the exam starts.  Vim can
encrypt the file for you, which gives you some protection.
   To start editing a new file with encryption, use the "-x" argument to start
Vim.  Example: >

	vim -x exam.txt

Vim prompts you for a key used for encrypting and decrypting the file:

	Enter encryption key: ~

Carefully type the secret key now.  You cannot see the characters you type,
they will be replaced by stars.  To avoid the situation that a typing mistake
will cause trouble, Vim asks you to enter the key again:

	Enter same key again: ~

You can now edit this file normally and put in all your secrets.  When you
finish editing the file and tell Vim to exit, the file is encrypted and
written.
   When you edit the file with Vim, it will ask you to enter the same key
again.  You don't need to use the "-x" argument.  You can also use the normal
":edit" command.  Vim adds a magic string to the file by which it recognizes
that the file was encrypted.
   If you try to view this file using another program, all you get is garbage.
Also, if you edit the file with Vim and enter the wrong key, you get garbage.
Vim does not have a mechanism to check if the key is the right one (this makes
it much harder to break the key).


SWITCHING ENCRYPTION ON AND OFF

To disable the encryption of a file, set the 'key' option to an empty string:
>
	:set key=

The next time you write the file this will be done without encryption.
   Setting the 'key' option to enable encryption is not a good idea, because
the password appears in the clear.  Anyone shoulder-surfing can read your
password.
   To avoid this problem, the ":X" command was created.  It asks you for an
encryption key, just like the "-x" argument did: >

	:X
	Enter encryption key: ******
	Enter same key again: ******


LIMITS ON ENCRYPTION

The encryption algorithm used by Vim is not very strong.  It is good enough to
keep out the casual prowler, but not good enough to keep out a cryptology
expert with lots of time on his hands.  The text in the swap file and the undo
file is also encrypted.  However, this is done block-by-block and may reduce
the time needed to crack a password.  You can disable the swap file, but then
a crash will cause you to lose your work, since Vim keeps all the text in
memory only.  The undo file can be disabled with the only disadvantage that
you can't undo after unloading the buffer.
   To avoid using a swap file, supply the -n argument on the command line.
For example, to edit the encrypted file "file.txt" without a swap file use the
following command: >

	vim -x -n file.txt

When already editing a file, the swapfile can be disabled with: >

	:setlocal noswapfile

Since there is no swapfile, recovery will be impossible.  Save the file a bit
more often to avoid the risk of losing your changes.

While the file is in memory, it is in plain text.  Anyone with privilege can
look in the editor's memory and discover the contents of the file.
   If you use a viminfo file, be aware that the contents of text registers are
written out in the clear as well.
   If you really want to secure the contents of a file, edit it only on a
portable computer not connected to a network, use good encryption tools, and
keep the computer locked up in a big safe when not in use.

