3.1.  Dynamic Server Discovery

   There are two special associations, manycast client and manycast
   server, which provide a dynamic server discovery function.  There are
   two types of manycast client associations: persistent and ephemeral.
   The persistent manycast client sends client (mode 3) packets to a



Mills, et al.                Standards Track                    [Page 7]

RFC 5905                   NTPv4 Specification                 June 2010


   designated IPv4 or IPv6 broadcast or multicast group address.
   Designated manycast servers within range of the time-to-live (TTL)
   field in the packet header listen for packets with that address.  If
   a server is suitable for synchronization, it returns an ordinary
   server (mode 4) packet using the client's unicast address.  Upon
   receiving this packet, the client mobilizes an ephemeral client (mode
   3) association.  The ephemeral client association persists until
   error or timeout.

   A manycast client continues sending packets to search for a minimum
   number of associations.  It starts with a TTL equal to one and
   continuously adding one to it until the minimum number of
   associations is made or when the TTL reaches a maximum value.  If the
   TTL reaches its maximum value and yet not enough associations are
   mobilized, the client stops transmission for a time-out period to
   clear all associations, and then repeats the search cycle.  If a
   minimum number of associations has been mobilized, then the client
   starts transmitting one packet per time-out period to maintain the
   associations.  Field constraints limit the minimum value to 1 and the
   maximum to 255.  These limits may be tuned for individual application
   needs.

   The ephemeral associations compete among themselves.  As new
   ephemeral associations are mobilized, the client runs the mitigation
   algorithms described in Sections 10 and 11.2 for the best candidates
   out of the population, the remaining ephemeral associations are timed
   out and demobilized.  In this way, the population includes only the
   best candidates that have most recently responded with an NTP packet
   to discipline the system clock.

