11.2.1.  Selection Algorithm

   Note that the selection and cluster algorithms are described
   separately, but combined in the code skeleton.  The selection
   algorithm operates to find an intersection interval containing a
   majority clique of truechimers using Byzantine agreement principles
   originally proposed by Marzullo [ref6], but modified to improve
   accuracy.  An overview of the algorithm is given below and described
   in the first half of the clock_select() routine in Appendix A.5.5.1.

   First, those servers that are unusable according to the rules of the
   protocol are detected and discarded as shown by the accept() routine
   in Appendix A.5.5.3.  Next, a set of tuples (p, type, edge) is
   generated for the remaining candidates.  Here, p is the association
   identifier and type identifies the upper (+1), middle (0), and lower
   (-1) endpoints of a correctness interval centered on theta for that
   candidate.  This results in three tuples, lowpoint (p, -1, theta -
   lambda), midpoint (p, 0, theta), and highpoint (p, +1, theta +
   lambda), where lambda is the root synchronization distance.  An
   example of this calculation is shown by the rootdist() routine in
   Appendix A.5.1.1.  The steps of the algorithm are:

   1.  For each of m associations, place three tuples as defined above
   on the candidate list.

   2.  Sort the tuples on the list by the edge component.  Order the
   lowpoint, midpoint, and highpoint of these intervals from lowest to
   highest.  Set the number of falsetickers f = 0.

   3.  Set the number of midpoints d = 0.  Set c = 0.  Scan from lowest
   endpoint to highest.  Add one to c for every lowpoint, subtract one
   for every highpoint, add one to d for every midpoint.  If c >= m - f,
   stop; set l = current lowpoint.

   4.  Set c = 0.  Scan from highest endpoint to lowest.  Add one to c
   for every highpoint, subtract one for every lowpoint, add one to d
   for every midpoint.  If c >= m - f, stop; set u = current highpoint.

   5.  Is d = f and l < u?  If yes, then follow step 5A; else, follow
   step 5B.

   5A. Success: the intersection interval is [l, u].

   5B. Add one to f.  Is f < (m / 2)?  If yes, then go to step 3 again.
   If no, then go to step 6.

   6.  Failure; a majority clique could not be found.  There are no
   suitable candidates to discipline the system clock.



Mills, et al.                Standards Track                   [Page 43]

RFC 5905                   NTPv4 Specification                 June 2010


   The algorithm is described in detail in Appendix A.5.5.1.  Note that
   it starts with the assumption that there are no falsetickers (f = 0)
   and attempts to find a non-empty intersection interval containing the
   midpoints of all correct servers, i.e., truechimers.  If a non-empty
   interval cannot be found, it increases the number of assumed
   falsetickers by one and tries again.  If a non-empty interval is
   found and the number of falsetickers is less than the number of
   truechimers, a majority clique has been found and the midpoint of
   each truechimer (theta) represents the candidates available to the
   cluster algorithm.

   If a majority clique is not found, or if the number of truechimers is
   less than CMIN, there are insufficient candidates to discipline the
   system clock.  CMIN defines the minimum number of servers consistent
   with the correctness requirements.  Suspicious operators would set
   CMIN to ensure multiple redundant servers are available for the
   algorithms to mitigate properly.  However, for historic reasons the
   default value for CMIN is one.

