3.1 Introduction

   RIP is a routing protocol based on the Bellman-Ford (or distance
   vector) algorithm.  This algorithm has been used for routing
   computations in computer networks since the early days of the
   ARPANET.  The particular packet formats and protocol described here
   are based on the program "routed," which is included with the
   Berkeley distribution of Unix.




Malkin                      Standards Track                     [Page 3]

RFC 2453                     RIP Version 2                 November 1998


   In an international network, such as the Internet, it is very
   unlikely that a single routing protocol will used for the entire
   network.  Rather, the network will be organized as a collection of
   Autonomous Systems (AS), each of which will, in general, be
   administered by a single entity.  Each AS will have its own routing
   technology, which may differ among AS's.  The routing protocol used
   within an AS is referred to as an Interior Gateway Protocol (IGP).  A
   separate protocol, called an Exterior Gateway Protocol (EGP), is used
   to transfer routing information among the AS's.  RIP was designed to
   work as an IGP in moderate-size AS's.  It is not intended for use in
   more complex environments.  For information on the context into which
   RIP-1 is expected to fit, see Braden and Postel [6].

   RIP uses one of a class of routing algorithms known as Distance
   Vector algorithms.  The earliest description of this class of
   algorithms known to the author is in Ford and Fulkerson [8].  Because
   of this, they are sometimes known as Ford-Fulkerson algorithms.  The
   term Bellman-Ford is also used, and derives from the fact that the
   formulation is based on Bellman's equation [4].  The presentation in
   this document is closely based on [5].  This document contains a
   protocol specification.  For an introduction to the mathematics of
   routing algorithms, see [1].  The basic algorithms used by this
   protocol were used in computer routing as early as 1969 in the
   ARPANET.  However, the specific ancestry of this protocol is within
   the Xerox network protocols.  The PUP protocols [7] used the Gateway
   Information Protocol to exchange routing information.  A somewhat
   updated version of this protocol was adopted for the Xerox Network
   Systems (XNS) architecture, with the name Routing Information
   Protocol [9].  Berkeley's routed is largely the same as the Routing
   Information Protocol, with XNS addresses replaced by a more general
   address format capable of handling IPv4 and other types of address,
   and with routing updates limited to one every 30 seconds.  Because of
   this similarity, the term Routing Information Protocol (or just RIP)
   is used to refer to both the XNS protocol and the protocol used by
   routed.

   RIP is intended for use within the IP-based Internet.  The Internet
   is organized into a number of networks connected by special purpose
   gateways known as routers.  The networks may be either point-to-point
   links or more complex networks such as Ethernet or token ring.  Hosts
   and routers are presented with IP datagrams addressed to some host.
   Routing is the method by which the host or router decides where to
   send the datagram.  It may be able to send the datagram directly to
   the destination, if that destination is on one of the networks that
   are directly connected to the host or router.  However, the
   interesting case is when the destination is not directly reachable.





Malkin                      Standards Track                     [Page 4]

RFC 2453                     RIP Version 2                 November 1998


   In this case, the host or router attempts to send the datagram to a
   router that is nearer the destination.  The goal of a routing
   protocol is very simple: It is to supply the information that is
   needed to do routing.

