3.2 Limitations of the Protocol

   This protocol does not solve every possible routing problem.  As
   mentioned above, it is primary intended for use as an IGP in networks
   of moderate size.  In addition, the following specific limitations
   are be mentioned:

   - The protocol is limited to networks whose longest path (the
     network's diameter) is 15 hops.  The designers believe that the
     basic protocol design is inappropriate for larger networks.  Note
     that this statement of the limit assumes that a cost of 1 is used
     for each network.  This is the way RIP is normally configured.  If
     the system administrator chooses to use larger costs, the upper
     bound of 15 can easily become a problem.

   - The protocol depends upon "counting to infinity" to resolve certain
     unusual situations. (This will be explained in the next section.)
     If the system of networks has several hundred networks, and a
     routing loop was formed involving all of them, the resolution of
     the loop would require either much time (if the frequency of
     routing updates were limited) or bandwidth (if updates were sent
     whenever changes were detected).  Such a loop would consume a large
     amount of network bandwidth before the loop was corrected.  We
     believe that in realistic cases, this will not be a problem except
     on slow lines.  Even then, the problem will be fairly unusual,
     since various precautions are taken that should prevent these
     problems in most cases.

   - This protocol uses fixed "metrics" to compare alternative routes.
     It is not appropriate for situations where routes need to be chosen
     based on real-time parameters such a measured delay, reliability,
     or load.  The obvious extensions to allow metrics of this type are
     likely to introduce instabilities of a sort that the protocol is
     not designed to handle.












Malkin                      Standards Track                     [Page 5]

RFC 2453                     RIP Version 2                 November 1998


