3.4.2 Preventing instability

   The algorithm as presented up to this point will always allow a host
   or router to calculate a correct routing table.  However, that is
   still not quite enough to make it useful in practice.  The proofs
   referred to above only show that the routing tables will converge to
   the correct values in finite time.  They do not guarantee that this
   time will be small enough to be useful, nor do they say what will
   happen to the metrics for networks that become inaccessible.

   It is easy enough to extend the mathematics to handle routes becoming
   inaccessible.  The convention suggested above will do that.  We
   choose a large metric value to represent "infinity".  This value must
   be large enough that no real metric would ever get that large.  For
   the purposes of this example, we will use the value 16.  Suppose a
   network becomes inaccessible.  All of the immediately neighboring
   routers time out and set the metric for that network to 16.  For
   purposes of analysis, we can assume that all the neighboring routers
   have gotten a new piece of hardware that connects them directly to
   the vanished network, with a cost of 16.  Since that is the only
   connection to the vanished network, all the other routers in the
   system will converge to new routes that go through one of those
   routers.  It is easy to see that once convergence has happened, all
   the routers will have metrics of at least 16 for the vanished
   network.  Routers one hop away from the original neighbors would end
   up with metrics of at least 17; routers two hops away would end up
   with at least 18, etc.  As these metrics are larger than the maximum
   metric value, they are all set to 16.  It is obvious that the system
   will now converge to a metric of 16 for the vanished network at all
   routers.

   Unfortunately, the question of how long convergence will take is not
   amenable to quite so simple an answer.  Before going any further, it
   will be useful to look at an example (taken from [2]).  Note that
   what we are about to show will not happen with a correct
   implementation of RIP.  We are trying to show why certain features
   are needed.  In the following example the letters correspond to
   routers, and the lines to networks.








Malkin                      Standards Track                    [Page 13]

RFC 2453                     RIP Version 2                 November 1998


     A-----B
      \   / \
       \ /  |
        C  /    all networks have cost 1, except
        | /     for the direct link from C to D, which
        |/      has cost 10
        D
        |<=== target network

   Each router will have a table showing a route to each network.

   However, for purposes of this illustration, we show only the routes
   from each router to the network marked at the bottom of the diagram.

           D:  directly connected, metric 1
           B:  route via D, metric 2
           C:  route via B, metric 3
           A:  route via B, metric 3

   Now suppose that the link from B to D fails.  The routes should now
   adjust to use the link from C to D.  Unfortunately, it will take a
   while for this to this to happen.  The routing changes start when B
   notices that the route to D is no longer usable.  For simplicity, the
   chart below assumes that all routers send updates at the same time.
   The chart shows the metric for the target network, as it appears in
   the routing table at each router.

       time ------>

       D: dir, 1   dir, 1   dir, 1   dir, 1  ...  dir, 1   dir, 1
       B: unreach  C,   4   C,   5   C,   6       C,  11   C,  12
       C: B,   3   A,   4   A,   5   A,   6       A,  11   D,  11
       A: B,   3   C,   4   C,   5   C,   6       C,  11   C,  12

       dir = directly connected
       unreach = unreachable

   Here's the problem:  B is able to get rid of its failed route using a
   timeout mechanism, but vestiges of that route persist in the system
   for a long time.  Initially, A and C still think they can get to D
   via B.  So, they keep sending updates listing metrics of 3.  In the
   next iteration, B will then claim that it can get to D via either A
   or C.  Of course, it can't.  The routes being claimed by A and C are
   now gone, but they have no way of knowing that yet.  And even when
   they discover that their routes via B have gone away, they each think
   there is a route available via the other.  Eventually the system
   converges, as all the mathematics claims it must.  But it can take
   some time to do so.  The worst case is when a network becomes



Malkin                      Standards Track                    [Page 14]

RFC 2453                     RIP Version 2                 November 1998


   completely inaccessible from some part of the system.  In that case,
   the metrics may increase slowly in a pattern like the one above until
   they finally reach infinity.  For this reason, the problem is called
   "counting to infinity".

   You should now see why "infinity" is chosen to be as small as
   possible.  If a network becomes completely inaccessible, we want
   counting to infinity to be stopped as soon as possible.  Infinity
   must be large enough that no real route is that big.  But it
   shouldn't be any bigger than required.  Thus the choice of infinity
   is a tradeoff between network size and speed of convergence in case
   counting to infinity happens.  The designers of RIP believed that the
   protocol was unlikely to be practical for networks with a diameter
   larger than 15.

   There are several things that can be done to prevent problems like
   this.  The ones used by RIP are called "split horizon with poisoned
   reverse", and "triggered updates".

