3.4.4  Triggered updates

   Split horizon with poisoned reverse will prevent any routing loops
   that involve only two routers.  However, it is still possible to end
   up with patterns in which three routers are engaged in mutual
   deception.  For example, A may believe it has a route through B, B
   through C, and C through A.  Split horizon cannot stop such a loop.
   This loop will only be resolved when the metric reaches infinity and
   the network involved is then declared unreachable.  Triggered updates
   are an attempt to speed up this convergence.  To get triggered
   updates, we simply add a rule that whenever a router changes the
   metric for a route, it is required to send update messages almost
   immediately, even if it is not yet time for one of the regular update
   message.  (The timing details will differ from protocol to protocol.
   Some distance vector protocols, including RIP, specify a small time
   delay, in order to avoid having triggered updates generate excessive
   network traffic.)  Note how this combines with the rules for
   computing new metrics.  Suppose a router's route to destination N
   goes through router G.  If an update arrives from G itself, the
   receiving router is required to believe the new information, whether
   the new metric is higher or lower than the old one.  If the result is
   a change in metric, then the receiving router will send triggered
   updates to all the hosts and routers directly connected to it.  They
   in turn may each send updates to their neighbors.  The result is a
   cascade of triggered updates.  It is easy to show which routers and
   hosts are involved in the cascade.  Suppose a router G times out a
   route to destination N.  G will send triggered updates to all of its
   neighbors.  However, the only neighbors who will believe the new
   information are those whose routes for N go through G.  The other
   routers and hosts will see this as information about a new route that
   is worse than the one they are already using, and ignore it.  The
   neighbors whose routes go through G will update their metrics and
   send triggered updates to all of their neighbors.  Again, only those
   neighbors whose routes go through them will pay attention.  Thus, the
   triggered updates will propagate backwards along all paths leading to
   router G, updating the metrics to infinity.  This propagation will
   stop as soon as it reaches a portion of the network whose route to
   destination N takes some other path.

   If the system could be made to sit still while the cascade of
   triggered updates happens, it would be possible to prove that
   counting to infinity will never happen.  Bad routes would always be
   removed immediately, and so no routing loops could form.

   Unfortunately, things are not so nice.  While the triggered updates
   are being sent, regular updates may be happening at the same time.
   Routers that haven't received the triggered update yet will still be
   sending out information based on the route that no longer exists.  It



Malkin                      Standards Track                    [Page 17]

RFC 2453                     RIP Version 2                 November 1998


   is possible that after the triggered update has gone through a
   router, it might receive a normal update from one of these routers
   that hasn't yet gotten the word.  This could reestablish an orphaned
   remnant of the faulty route.  If triggered updates happen quickly
   enough, this is very unlikely.  However, counting to infinity is
   still possible.

   The router requirements RFC [11] specifies that all implementation of
   RIP must implement triggered update for deleted routes and may
   implement triggered updates for new routes or change of routes.  RIP
   implementations must also limit the rate which of triggered updates
   may be trandmitted. (see section 3.10.1)

