3.5 Protocol Specification

   RIP is intended to allow routers to exchange information for
   computing routes through an IPv4-based network.  Any router that uses
   RIP is assumed to have interfaces to one or more networks, otherwise
   it isn't really a router.  These are referred to as its directly-
   connected networks.  The protocol relies on access to certain
   information about each of these networks, the most important of which
   is its metric.  The RIP metric of a network is an integer between 1
   and 15, inclusive.  It is set in some manner not specified in this
   protocol; however, given the maximum path limit of 15, a value of 1
   is usually used.  Implementations should allow the system
   administrator to set the metric of each network.  In addition to the
   metric, each network will have an IPv4 destination address and subnet
   mask associated with it.  These are to be set by the system
   administrator in a manner not specified in this protocol.

   Any host that uses RIP is assumed to have interfaces to one or more
   networks.  These are referred to as its "directly-connected
   networks".  The protocol relies on access to certain information
   about each of these networks.  The most important is its metric or
   "cost".  The metric of a network is an integer between 1 and 15
   inclusive.  It is set in some manner not specified in this protocol.
   Most existing implementations always use a metric of 1.  New
   implementations should allow the system administrator to set the cost
   of each network.  In addition to the cost, each network will have an
   IPv4 network number and a subnet mask associated with it.  These are
   to be set by the system administrator in a manner not specified in
   this protocol.

   Note that the rules specified in section 3.7 assume that there is a
   single subnet mask applying to each IPv4 network, and that only the
   subnet masks for directly-connected networks are known.  There may be
   systems that use different subnet masks for different subnets within
   a single network.  There may also be instances where it is desirable



Malkin                      Standards Track                    [Page 18]

RFC 2453                     RIP Version 2                 November 1998


   for a system to know the subnets masks of distant networks. Network-
   wide distribution of routing information which contains different
   subnet masks is permitted if all routers in the network are running
   the extensions presented in this document. However, if all routers in
   the network are not running these extensions distribution of routing
   information containing different subnet masks must be limited to
   avoid interoperability problems. See sections 3.7 and 4.3 for the
   rules governing subnet distribution.

   Each router that implements RIP is assumed to have a routing table.
   This table has one entry for every destination that is reachable
   throughout the system operating RIP.  Each entry contains at least
   the following information:

   - The IPv4 address of the destination.

   - A metric, which represents the total cost of getting a datagram
     from the router to that destination.  This metric is the sum of the
     costs associated with the networks that would be traversed to get
     to the destination.

   - The IPv4 address of the next router along the path to the
     destination (i.e., the next hop).  If the destination is on one of
     the directly-connected networks, this item is not needed.

   - A flag to indicate that information about the route has changed
     recently.  This will be referred to as the "route change flag."

   - Various timers associated with the route.  See section 3.6 for more
     details on timers.

   The entries for the directly-connected networks are set up by the
   router using information gathered by means not specified in this
   protocol.  The metric for a directly-connected network is set to the
   cost of that network.  As mentioned, 1 is the usual cost.  In that
   case, the RIP metric reduces to a simple hop-count.  More complex
   metrics may be used when it is desirable to show preference for some
   networks over others (e.g., to indicate of differences in bandwidth
   or reliability).

   To support the extensions detailed in this document, each entry must
   additionally contain a subnet mask. The subnet mask allows the router
   (along with the IPv4 address of the destination) to identify the
   different subnets within a single network as well as the subnets
   masks of distant networks.






Malkin                      Standards Track                    [Page 19]

RFC 2453                     RIP Version 2                 November 1998


   Implementors may also choose to allow the system administrator to
   enter additional routes.  These would most likely be routes to hosts
   or networks outside the scope of the routing system.  They are
   referred to as "static routes."  Entries for destinations other than
   these initial ones are added and updated by the algorithms described
   in the following sections.

   In order for the protocol to provide complete information on routing,
   every router in the AS must participate in the protocol.  In cases
   where multiple IGPs are in use, there must be at least one router
   which can leak routing information between the protocols.

