3.7 Addressing Considerations

   Distance vector routing can be used to describe routes to individual
   hosts or to networks.  The RIP protocol allows either of these
   possibilities.  The destinations appearing in request and response
   messages can be networks, hosts, or a special code used to indicate a
   default address.  In general, the kinds of routes actually used will
   depend upon the routing strategy used for the particular network.
   Many networks are set up so that routing information for individual
   hosts is not needed.  If every node on a given network or subnet is
   accessible through the same routers, then there is no reason to
   mention individual hosts in the routing tables.  However, networks
   that include point-to-point lines sometimes require routers to keep
   track of routes to certain nodes.  Whether this feature is required
   depends upon the addressing and routing approach used in the system.
   Thus, some implementations may choose not to support host routes.  If
   host routes are not supported, they are to be dropped when they are
   received in response messages (see section 3.7.2).

   The RIP-1 packet format does not distinguish among various types of
   address.  Fields that are labeled "address" can contain any of the
   following:

   host address subnet number network number zero (default route)

   Entities which use RIP-1 are assumed to use the most specific
   information available when routing a datagram.  That is, when routing
   a datagram, its destination address must first be checked against the
   list of node addresses.  Then it must be checked to see whether it
   matches any known subnet or network number.  Finally, if none of
   these match, the default route is used.

   When a node evaluates information that it receives via RIP-1, its
   interpretation of an address depends upon whether it knows the subnet
   mask that applies to the net.  If so, then it is possible to
   determine the meaning of the address.  For example, consider net
   128.6.  It has a subnet mask of 255.255.255.0.  Thus 128.6.0.0 is a
   network number, 128.6.4.0 is a subnet number, and 128.6.4.1 is a node
   address.  However, if the node does not know the subnet mask,
   evaluation of an address may be ambiguous.  If there is a non-zero
   node part, there is no clear way to determine whether the address
   represents a subnet number or a node address.  As a subnet number
   would be useless without the subnet mask, addresses are assumed to
   represent nodes in this situation.  In order to avoid this sort of
   ambiguity, when using version 1, nodes must not send subnet routes to
   nodes that cannot be expected to know the appropriate subnet mask.
   Normally hosts only know the subnet masks for directly-connected
   networks.  Therefore, unless special provisions have been made,



Malkin                      Standards Track                    [Page 22]

RFC 2453                     RIP Version 2                 November 1998


   routes to a subnet must not be sent outside the network of which the
   subnet is a part.  RIP-2 (see section 4) eliminates the subnet/host
   ambiguity by including the subnet mask in the routing entry.

   This "subnet filtering" is carried out by the routers at the "border"
   of the subnetted network.  These are routers which connect that
   network with some other network.  Within the subnetted network, each
   subnet is treated as an individual network.  Routing entries for each
   subnet are circulated by RIP.  However, border routers send only a
   single entry for the network as a whole to nodes in other networks.
   This means that a border router will send different information to
   different neighbors.  For neighbors connected to the subnetted
   network, it generates a list of all subnets to which it is directly
   connected, using the subnet number.  For neighbors connected to other
   networks, it makes a single entry for the network as a whole, showing
   the metric associated with that network.  This metric would normally
   be the smallest metric for the subnets to which the router is
   attached.

   Similarly, border routers must not mention host routes for nodes
   within one of the directly-connected networks in messages to other
   networks.  Those routes will be subsumed by the single entry for the
   network as a whole.

   The router requirements RFC [11] specifies that all implementation of
   RIP should support host routes but if they do not then they must
   ignore any received host routes.

   The special address 0.0.0.0 is used to describe a default route.  A
   default route is used when it is not convenient to list every
   possible network in the RIP updates, and when one or more closely-
   connected routers in the system are prepared to handle traffic to the
   networks that are not listed explicitly.  These routers should create
   RIP entries for the address 0.0.0.0, just as if it were a network to
   which they are connected.  The decision as to how routers create
   entries for 0.0.0.0 is left to the implementor.  Most commonly, the
   system administrator will be provided with a way to specify which
   routers should create entries for 0.0.0.0; however, other mechanisms
   are possible.  For example, an implementor might decide that any
   router which speaks BGP should be declared to be a default router.
   It may be useful to allow the network administrator to choose the
   metric to be used in these entries.  If there is more than one
   default router, this will make it possible to express a preference
   for one over the other.  The entries for 0.0.0.0 are handled by RIP
   in exactly the same manner as if there were an actual network with
   this address.  System administrators should take care to make sure
   that routes to 0.0.0.0 do not propagate further than is intended.
   Generally, each autonomous system has its own preferred default



Malkin                      Standards Track                    [Page 23]

RFC 2453                     RIP Version 2                 November 1998


   router.  Thus, routes involving 0.0.0.0 should generally not leave
   the boundary of an autonomous system.  The mechanisms for enforcing
   this are not specified in this document.

