3.10.1 Triggered Updates

   Triggered updates require special handling for two reasons.  First,
   experience shows that triggered updates can cause excessive load on
   networks with limited capacity or networks with many routers on them.
   Therefore, the protocol requires that implementors include provisions
   to limit the frequency of triggered updates.  After a triggered
   update is sent, a timer should be set for a random interval between 1
   and 5 seconds.  If other changes that would trigger updates occur
   before the timer expires, a single update is triggered when the timer
   expires.  The timer is then reset to another random value between 1
   and 5 seconds.  A triggered update should be suppressed if a regular
   update is due by the time the triggered update would be sent.

   Second, triggered updates do not need to include the entire routing
   table.  In principle, only those routes which have changed need to be
   included.  Therefore, messages generated as part of a triggered
   update must include at least those routes that have their route
   change flag set.  They may include additional routes, at the
   discretion of the implementor; however, sending complete routing
   updates is strongly discouraged.  When a triggered update is
   processed, messages should be generated for every directly-connected
   network.  Split Horizon processing is done when generating triggered
   updates as well as normal updates (see section 3.9).  If, after Split
   Horizon processing for a given network, a changed route will appear
   unchanged on that network (e.g., it appears with an infinite metric),
   the route need not be sent.  If no routes need be sent on that
   network, the update may be omitted.  Once all of the triggered
   updates have been generated, the route change flags should be
   cleared.






Malkin                      Standards Track                    [Page 29]

RFC 2453                     RIP Version 2                 November 1998


   If input processing is allowed while output is being generated,
   appropriate interlocking must be done.  The route change flags should
   not be changed as a result of processing input while a triggered
   update message is being generated.

   The only difference between a triggered update and other update
   messages is the possible omission of routes that have not changed.
   The remaining mechanisms, described in the next section, must be
   applied to all updates.

