3.4.3 Split horizon

   Note that some of the problem above is caused by the fact that A and
   C are engaged in a pattern of mutual deception.  Each claims to be
   able to get to D via the other.  This can be prevented by being a bit
   more careful about where information is sent.  In particular, it is
   never useful to claim reachability for a destination network to the
   neighbor(s) from which the route was learned.  "Split horizon" is a
   scheme for avoiding problems caused by including routes in updates
   sent to the router from which they were learned.  The "simple split
   horizon" scheme omits routes learned from one neighbor in updates
   sent to that neighbor.  "Split horizon with poisoned reverse"
   includes such routes in updates, but sets their metrics to infinity.

   If A thinks it can get to D via C, its messages to C should indicate
   that D is unreachable.  If the route through C is real, then C either
   has a direct connection to D, or a connection through some other
   router.  C's route can't possibly go back to A, since that forms a
   loop.  By telling C that D is unreachable, A simply guards against
   the possibility that C might get confused and believe that there is a
   route through A.  This is obvious for a point to point line.  But
   consider the possibility that A and C are connected by a broadcast
   network such as an Ethernet, and there are other routers on that
   network.  If A has a route through C, it should indicate that D is
   unreachable when talking to any other router on that network.  The
   other routers on the network can get to C themselves.  They would
   never need to get to C via A.  If A's best route is really through C,
   no other router on that network needs to know that A can reach D.
   This is fortunate, because it means that the same update message that



Malkin                      Standards Track                    [Page 15]

RFC 2453                     RIP Version 2                 November 1998


   is used for C can be used for all other routers on the same network.
   Thus, update messages can be sent by broadcast.

   In general, split horizon with poisoned reverse is safer than simple
   split horizon.  If two routers have routes pointing at each other,
   advertising reverse routes with a metric of 16 will break the loop
   immediately.  If the reverse routes are simply not advertised, the
   erroneous routes will have to be eliminated by waiting for a timeout.
   However, poisoned reverse does have a disadvantage: it increases the
   size of the routing messages.  Consider the case of a campus backbone
   connecting a number of different buildings.  In each building, there
   is a router connecting the backbone to a local network.  Consider
   what routing updates those routers should broadcast on the backbone
   network.  All that the rest of the network really needs to know about
   each router is what local networks it is connected to.  Using simple
   split horizon, only those routes would appear in update messages sent
   by the router to the backbone network.  If split horizon with
   poisoned reverse is used, the router must mention all routes that it
   learns from the backbone, with metrics of 16.  If the system is
   large, this can result in a large update message, almost all of whose
   entries indicate unreachable networks.

   In a static sense, advertising reverse routes with a metric of 16
   provides no additional information.  If there are many routers on one
   broadcast network, these extra entries can use significant bandwidth.
   The reason they are there is to improve dynamic behavior.  When
   topology changes, mentioning routes that should not go through the
   router as well as those that should can speed up convergence.
   However, in some situations, network managers may prefer to accept
   somewhat slower convergence in order to minimize routing overhead.
   Thus implementors may at their option implement simple split horizon
   rather than split horizon with poisoned reverse, or they may provide
   a configuration option that allows the network manager to choose
   which behavior to use.  It is also permissible to implement hybrid
   schemes that advertise some reverse routes with a metric of 16 and
   omit others.  An example of such a scheme would be to use a metric of
   16 for reverse routes for a certain period of time after routing
   changes involving them, and thereafter omitting them from updates.

   The router requirements RFC [11] specifies that all implementation of
   RIP must use split horizon and should also use split horizon with
   poisoned reverse, although there may be a knob to disable poisoned
   reverse.








Malkin                      Standards Track                    [Page 16]

RFC 2453                     RIP Version 2                 November 1998


