3.9.2 Response Messages

   A Response can be received for one of several different reasons:

   - response to a specific query
   - regular update (unsolicited response)
   - triggered update caused by a route change

   Processing is the same no matter why the Response was generated.

   Because processing of a Response may update the router's routing
   table, the Response must be checked carefully for validity.  The
   Response must be ignored if it is not from the RIP port.  The
   datagram's IPv4 source address should be checked to see whether the
   datagram is from a valid neighbor; the source of the datagram must be
   on a directly-connected network.  It is also worth checking to see
   whether the response is from one of the router's own addresses.
   Interfaces on broadcast networks may receive copies of their own
   broadcasts/multicasts immediately.  If a router processes its own
   output as new input, confusion is likely so such datagrams must be
   ignored.




Malkin                      Standards Track                    [Page 26]

RFC 2453                     RIP Version 2                 November 1998


   Once the datagram as a whole has been validated, process the RTEs in
   the Response one by one.  Again, start by doing validation.
   Incorrect metrics and other format errors usually indicate
   misbehaving neighbors and should probably be brought to the
   administrator's attention.  For example, if the metric is greater
   than infinity, ignore the entry but log the event.  The basic
   validation tests are:

   - is the destination address valid (e.g., unicast; not net 0 or 127)
   - is the metric valid (i.e., between 1 and 16, inclusive)

   If any check fails, ignore that entry and proceed to the next.
   Again, logging the error is probably a good idea.

   Once the entry has been validated, update the metric by adding the
   cost of the network on which the message arrived.  If the result is
   greater than infinity, use infinity.  That is,

   metric = MIN (metric + cost, infinity)

   Now, check to see whether there is already an explicit route for the
   destination address.  If there is no such route, add this route to
   the routing table, unless the metric is infinity (there is no point
   in adding a route which is unusable).  Adding a route to the routing
   table consists of:

   - Setting the destination address to the destination address in the
     RTE

   - Setting the metric to the newly calculated metric (as described
     above)

   - Set the next hop address to be the address of the router from which
     the datagram came

   - Initialize the timeout for the route.  If the garbage-collection
     timer is running for this route, stop it (see section 3.6 for a
     discussion of the timers)

   - Set the route change flag

   - Signal the output process to trigger an update (see section 3.8.1)

   If there is an existing route, compare the next hop address to the
   address of the router from which the datagram came.  If this datagram
   is from the same router as the existing route, reinitialize the
   timeout.  Next, compare the metrics.  If the datagram is from the
   same router as the existing route, and the new metric is different



Malkin                      Standards Track                    [Page 27]

RFC 2453                     RIP Version 2                 November 1998


   than the old one; or, if the new metric is lower than the old one; do
   the following actions:

   - Adopt the route from the datagram (i.e., put the new metric in and
     adjust the next hop address, if necessary).

   - Set the route change flag and signal the output process to trigger
     an update

   - If the new metric is infinity, start the deletion process
     (described above); otherwise, re-initialize the timeout

   If the new metric is infinity, the deletion process begins for the
   route, which is no longer used for routing packets.  Note that the
   deletion process is started only when the metric is first set to
   infinity.  If the metric was already infinity, then a new deletion
   process is not started.

   If the new metric is the same as the old one, it is simplest to do
   nothing further (beyond re-initializing the timeout, as specified
   above); but, there is a heuristic which could be applied.  Normally,
   it is senseless to replace a route if the new route has the same
   metric as the existing route; this would cause the route to bounce
   back and forth, which would generate an intolerable number of
   triggered updates.  However, if the existing route is showing signs
   of timing out, it may be better to switch to an equally-good
   alternative route immediately, rather than waiting for the timeout to
   happen.  Therefore, if the new metric is the same as the old one,
   examine the timeout for the existing route.  If it is at least
   halfway to the expiration point, switch to the new route.  This
   heuristic is optional, but highly recommended.

   Any entry that fails these tests is ignored, as it is no better than
   the current route.

