NFS.CONF(5)                                                                        File Formats Manual                                                                        NFS.CONF(5)

NAME
       nfs.conf - general configuration for NFS daemons and tools

SYNOPSIS
       /etc/nfs.conf

DESCRIPTION
       This file contains site-specific configuration for various NFS daemons and other processes.  Most configuration can also be passed to processes via command line arguments, but it
       can be more convenient to have a central file.  In particular, this encourages consistent configuration across different processes.

       When command line options are provided, they override values set in this file.  When this file does not specify a particular parameter, and no command line  option  is  provided,
       each tool provides its own default values.

       The  file  format  supports  multiple  sections,  each of which can contain multiple value assignments.  A section is introduced by a line containing the section name enclosed in
       square brackets, so
              [global]
       would introduce a section called global.  A value assignment is a single line that has the name of the value, an equals sign, and a setting for the value, so
              threads = 4
       would set the value named threads in the current section to 4.  Leading and trailing spaces and tab are ignored, as are spaces and tabs surrounding the equals sign.   Single  and
       double quotes surrounding the assigned value are also removed.  If the resulting string is empty, the whole assignment is ignored.

       Any line starting with "#" or ";" is ignored, as is any blank line.

       If  the  assigned  value  started with a "$" then the remainder is treated as a name and looked for in the section [environment] or in the processes environment (see environ(7)).
       The value found is used for this value.

       The value name include is special.  If a section contains
              include = /some/file/name
       then the named file will be read, and any value assignments found there-in will be added to the current section.  If the file contains section headers, then new sections will  be
       created just as if the included file appeared in place of the include line.

       Lookup of section and value names is case-insensitive.

       Where a Boolean value is expected, any of true, t, yes, y, on, or 1 can be used for "true", while false, f, no, n, off, or 0 can be used for "false".  Comparisons are case-insen-
       sitive.

SECTIONS
       The following sections are known to various programs, and can contain the given named values.  Most sections can also contain a debug value, which can be one  or  more  from  the
       list general, call, auth, parse, all.  When a list is given, the members should be comma-separated.

       general
              Recognized values: pipefs-directory.

              See blkmapd(8), rpc.idmapd(8), and rpc.gssd(8) for details.

       nfsdcltrack
              Recognized values: storagedir.

              The  nfsdcltrack  program  is  run directly by the Linux kernel and there is no opportunity to provide command line arguments, so the configuration file is the only way to
              configure this program.  See nfsdcltrack(8) for details.

       nfsd   Recognized values: threads, host, port, grace-time, lease-time, udp, tcp, vers2, vers3, vers4, vers4.0, vers4.1, vers4.2, rdma.

              Version and protocol values are Boolean values as described above, and are also used by rpc.mountd.  Threads and the two times are integers.  port  and  rdma  are  service
              names or numbers.  See rpc.nfsd(8) for details.

       mountd Recognized values: manage-gids, descriptors, port, threads, reverse-lookup, state-directory-path, ha-callout.

              These, together with the protocol and version values in the [nfsd] section, are used to configure mountd.  See rpc.mountd(8) for details.

              The state-directory-path value in the [mountd] section is also used by exportfs(8).

       statd  Recognized values: port, outgoing-port, name, state-directory-path, ha-callout.

              See rpc.statd(8) for details.

       lockd  Recognized values: port and udp-port.

              See rpc.statd(8) for details.

       sm-notify
              Recognized values: retry-time, outgoing-port, and outgoing-addr.

              See sm-notify(8) for details.

       gssd   Recognized  values:  use-memcache,  use-machine-creds, use-gss-proxy, avoid-dns, limit-to-legacy-enctypes, context-timeout, rpc-timeout, keytab-file, cred-cache-directory,
              preferred-realm.

              See rpc.gssd(8) for details.

       svcgssd
              Recognized values: principal.

              See rpc.svcgssd(8) for details.

       exportfs
              Only debug= is recognized.

FILES
       /etc/nfs.conf

SEE ALSO
       nfsdcltrack(8), rpc.nfsd(8), rpc.mountd(8), nfsmount.conf(5).

                                                                                                                                                                              NFS.CONF(5)
