23.2.2.1 Basic Python
.....................

At startup, GDB overrides Python's 'sys.stdout' and 'sys.stderr' to
print using GDB's output-paging streams.  A Python program which outputs
to one of these streams may have its output interrupted by the user
(*note Screen Size::).  In this situation, a Python 'KeyboardInterrupt'
exception is thrown.

   Some care must be taken when writing Python code to run in GDB.  Two
things worth noting in particular:

   * GDB install handlers for 'SIGCHLD' and 'SIGINT'.  Python code must
     not override these, or even change the options using 'sigaction'.
     If your program changes the handling of these signals, GDB will
     most likely stop working correctly.  Note that it is unfortunately
     common for GUI toolkits to install a 'SIGCHLD' handler.

   * GDB takes care to mark its internal file descriptors as
     close-on-exec.  However, this cannot be done in a thread-safe way
     on all platforms.  Your Python programs should be aware of this and
     should both create new file descriptors with the close-on-exec flag
     set and arrange to close unneeded file descriptors before starting
     a child process.

   GDB introduces a new Python module, named 'gdb'.  All methods and
classes added by GDB are placed in this module.  GDB automatically
'import's the 'gdb' module for use in all scripts evaluated by the
'python' command.

   Some types of the 'gdb' module come with a textual representation
(accessible through the 'repr' or 'str' functions).  These are offered
for debugging purposes only, expect them to change over time.

 -- Variable: gdb.PYTHONDIR
     A string containing the python directory (*note Python::).

 -- Function: gdb.execute (command [, from_tty [, to_string]])
     Evaluate COMMAND, a string, as a GDB CLI command.  If a GDB
     exception happens while COMMAND runs, it is translated as described
     in *note Exception Handling: Exception Handling.

     The FROM_TTY flag specifies whether GDB ought to consider this
     command as having originated from the user invoking it
     interactively.  It must be a boolean value.  If omitted, it
     defaults to 'False'.

     By default, any output produced by COMMAND is sent to GDB's
     standard output (and to the log output if logging is turned on).
     If the TO_STRING parameter is 'True', then output will be collected
     by 'gdb.execute' and returned as a string.  The default is 'False',
     in which case the return value is 'None'.  If TO_STRING is 'True',
     the GDB virtual terminal will be temporarily set to unlimited width
     and height, and its pagination will be disabled; *note Screen
     Size::.

 -- Function: gdb.breakpoints ()
     Return a sequence holding all of GDB's breakpoints.  *Note
     Breakpoints In Python::, for more information.  In GDB version 7.11
     and earlier, this function returned 'None' if there were no
     breakpoints.  This peculiarity was subsequently fixed, and now
     'gdb.breakpoints' returns an empty sequence in this case.

 -- Function: gdb.rbreak (regex [, minsyms [, throttle, [, symtabs ]]])
     Return a Python list holding a collection of newly set
     'gdb.Breakpoint' objects matching function names defined by the
     REGEX pattern.  If the MINSYMS keyword is 'True', all system
     functions (those not explicitly defined in the inferior) will also
     be included in the match.  The THROTTLE keyword takes an integer
     that defines the maximum number of pattern matches for functions
     matched by the REGEX pattern.  If the number of matches exceeds the
     integer value of THROTTLE, a 'RuntimeError' will be raised and no
     breakpoints will be created.  If THROTTLE is not defined then there
     is no imposed limit on the maximum number of matches and
     breakpoints to be created.  The SYMTABS keyword takes a Python
     iterable that yields a collection of 'gdb.Symtab' objects and will
     restrict the search to those functions only contained within the
     'gdb.Symtab' objects.

 -- Function: gdb.parameter (parameter)
     Return the value of a GDB PARAMETER given by its name, a string;
     the parameter name string may contain spaces if the parameter has a
     multi-part name.  For example, 'print object' is a valid parameter
     name.

     If the named parameter does not exist, this function throws a
     'gdb.error' (*note Exception Handling::).  Otherwise, the
     parameter's value is converted to a Python value of the appropriate
     type, and returned.

 -- Function: gdb.history (number)
     Return a value from GDB's value history (*note Value History::).
     The NUMBER argument indicates which history element to return.  If
     NUMBER is negative, then GDB will take its absolute value and count
     backward from the last element (i.e., the most recent element) to
     find the value to return.  If NUMBER is zero, then GDB will return
     the most recent element.  If the element specified by NUMBER
     doesn't exist in the value history, a 'gdb.error' exception will be
     raised.

     If no exception is raised, the return value is always an instance
     of 'gdb.Value' (*note Values From Inferior::).

 -- Function: gdb.convenience_variable (name)
     Return the value of the convenience variable (*note Convenience
     Vars::) named NAME.  NAME must be a string.  The name should not
     include the '$' that is used to mark a convenience variable in an
     expression.  If the convenience variable does not exist, then
     'None' is returned.

 -- Function: gdb.set_convenience_variable (name, value)
     Set the value of the convenience variable (*note Convenience
     Vars::) named NAME.  NAME must be a string.  The name should not
     include the '$' that is used to mark a convenience variable in an
     expression.  If VALUE is 'None', then the convenience variable is
     removed.  Otherwise, if VALUE is not a 'gdb.Value' (*note Values
     From Inferior::), it is is converted using the 'gdb.Value'
     constructor.

 -- Function: gdb.parse_and_eval (expression)
     Parse EXPRESSION, which must be a string, as an expression in the
     current language, evaluate it, and return the result as a
     'gdb.Value'.

     This function can be useful when implementing a new command (*note
     Commands In Python::), as it provides a way to parse the command's
     argument as an expression.  It is also useful simply to compute
     values.

 -- Function: gdb.find_pc_line (pc)
     Return the 'gdb.Symtab_and_line' object corresponding to the PC
     value.  *Note Symbol Tables In Python::.  If an invalid value of PC
     is passed as an argument, then the 'symtab' and 'line' attributes
     of the returned 'gdb.Symtab_and_line' object will be 'None' and 0
     respectively.  This is identical to
     'gdb.current_progspace().find_pc_line(pc)' and is included for
     historical compatibility.

 -- Function: gdb.post_event (event)
     Put EVENT, a callable object taking no arguments, into GDB's
     internal event queue.  This callable will be invoked at some later
     point, during GDB's event processing.  Events posted using
     'post_event' will be run in the order in which they were posted;
     however, there is no way to know when they will be processed
     relative to other events inside GDB.

     GDB is not thread-safe.  If your Python program uses multiple
     threads, you must be careful to only call GDB-specific functions in
     the GDB thread.  'post_event' ensures this.  For example:

          (gdb) python
          >import threading
          >
          >class Writer():
          > def __init__(self, message):
          >        self.message = message;
          > def __call__(self):
          >        gdb.write(self.message)
          >
          >class MyThread1 (threading.Thread):
          > def run (self):
          >        gdb.post_event(Writer("Hello "))
          >
          >class MyThread2 (threading.Thread):
          > def run (self):
          >        gdb.post_event(Writer("World\n"))
          >
          >MyThread1().start()
          >MyThread2().start()
          >end
          (gdb) Hello World

 -- Function: gdb.write (string [, stream])
     Print a string to GDB's paginated output stream.  The optional
     STREAM determines the stream to print to.  The default stream is
     GDB's standard output stream.  Possible stream values are:

     'gdb.STDOUT'
          GDB's standard output stream.

     'gdb.STDERR'
          GDB's standard error stream.

     'gdb.STDLOG'
          GDB's log stream (*note Logging Output::).

     Writing to 'sys.stdout' or 'sys.stderr' will automatically call
     this function and will automatically direct the output to the
     relevant stream.

 -- Function: gdb.flush ()
     Flush the buffer of a GDB paginated stream so that the contents are
     displayed immediately.  GDB will flush the contents of a stream
     automatically when it encounters a newline in the buffer.  The
     optional STREAM determines the stream to flush.  The default stream
     is GDB's standard output stream.  Possible stream values are:

     'gdb.STDOUT'
          GDB's standard output stream.

     'gdb.STDERR'
          GDB's standard error stream.

     'gdb.STDLOG'
          GDB's log stream (*note Logging Output::).

     Flushing 'sys.stdout' or 'sys.stderr' will automatically call this
     function for the relevant stream.

 -- Function: gdb.target_charset ()
     Return the name of the current target character set (*note
     Character Sets::).  This differs from
     'gdb.parameter('target-charset')' in that 'auto' is never returned.

 -- Function: gdb.target_wide_charset ()
     Return the name of the current target wide character set (*note
     Character Sets::).  This differs from
     'gdb.parameter('target-wide-charset')' in that 'auto' is never
     returned.

 -- Function: gdb.solib_name (address)
     Return the name of the shared library holding the given ADDRESS as
     a string, or 'None'.  This is identical to
     'gdb.current_progspace().solib_name(address)' and is included for
     historical compatibility.

 -- Function: gdb.decode_line ([expression])
     Return locations of the line specified by EXPRESSION, or of the
     current line if no argument was given.  This function returns a
     Python tuple containing two elements.  The first element contains a
     string holding any unparsed section of EXPRESSION (or 'None' if the
     expression has been fully parsed).  The second element contains
     either 'None' or another tuple that contains all the locations that
     match the expression represented as 'gdb.Symtab_and_line' objects
     (*note Symbol Tables In Python::).  If EXPRESSION is provided, it
     is decoded the way that GDB's inbuilt 'break' or 'edit' commands do
     (*note Specify Location::).

 -- Function: gdb.prompt_hook (current_prompt)

     If PROMPT_HOOK is callable, GDB will call the method assigned to
     this operation before a prompt is displayed by GDB.

     The parameter 'current_prompt' contains the current GDB prompt.
     This method must return a Python string, or 'None'.  If a string is
     returned, the GDB prompt will be set to that string.  If 'None' is
     returned, GDB will continue to use the current prompt.

     Some prompts cannot be substituted in GDB.  Secondary prompts such
     as those used by readline for command input, and annotation related
     prompts are prohibited from being changed.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Exception Handling,  Next: Values From Inferior,  Prev: Basic Python,  Up: Python API

