23.2.2.6 Selecting Pretty-Printers
..................................

GDB provides several ways to register a pretty-printer: globally, per
program space, and per objfile.  When choosing how to register your
pretty-printer, a good rule is to register it with the smallest scope
possible: that is prefer a specific objfile first, then a program space,
and only register a printer globally as a last resort.

 -- Variable: gdb.pretty_printers
     The Python list 'gdb.pretty_printers' contains an array of
     functions or callable objects that have been registered via
     addition as a pretty-printer.  Printers in this list are called
     'global' printers, they're available when debugging all inferiors.

   Each 'gdb.Progspace' contains a 'pretty_printers' attribute.  Each
'gdb.Objfile' also contains a 'pretty_printers' attribute.

   Each function on these lists is passed a single 'gdb.Value' argument
and should return a pretty-printer object conforming to the interface
definition above (*note Pretty Printing API::).  If a function cannot
create a pretty-printer for the value, it should return 'None'.

   GDB first checks the 'pretty_printers' attribute of each
'gdb.Objfile' in the current program space and iteratively calls each
enabled lookup routine in the list for that 'gdb.Objfile' until it
receives a pretty-printer object.  If no pretty-printer is found in the
objfile lists, GDB then searches the pretty-printer list of the current
program space, calling each enabled function until an object is
returned.  After these lists have been exhausted, it tries the global
'gdb.pretty_printers' list, again calling each enabled function until an
object is returned.

   The order in which the objfiles are searched is not specified.  For a
given list, functions are always invoked from the head of the list, and
iterated over sequentially until the end of the list, or a printer
object is returned.

   For various reasons a pretty-printer may not work.  For example, the
underlying data structure may have changed and the pretty-printer is out
of date.

   The consequences of a broken pretty-printer are severe enough that
GDB provides support for enabling and disabling individual printers.
For example, if 'print frame-arguments' is on, a backtrace can become
highly illegible if any argument is printed with a broken printer.

   Pretty-printers are enabled and disabled by attaching an 'enabled'
attribute to the registered function or callable object.  If this
attribute is present and its value is 'False', the printer is disabled,
otherwise the printer is enabled.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Writing a Pretty-Printer,  Next: Type Printing API,  Prev: Selecting Pretty-Printers,  Up: Python API

