23.2.2.5 Pretty Printing API
............................

A pretty-printer is just an object that holds a value and implements a
specific interface, defined here.  An example output is provided (*note
Pretty Printing::).

 -- Function: pretty_printer.children (self)
     GDB will call this method on a pretty-printer to compute the
     children of the pretty-printer's value.

     This method must return an object conforming to the Python iterator
     protocol.  Each item returned by the iterator must be a tuple
     holding two elements.  The first element is the "name" of the
     child; the second element is the child's value.  The value can be
     any Python object which is convertible to a GDB value.

     This method is optional.  If it does not exist, GDB will act as
     though the value has no children.

     For efficiency, the 'children' method should lazily compute its
     results.  This will let GDB read as few elements as necessary, for
     example when various print settings (*note Print Settings::) or
     '-var-list-children' (*note GDB/MI Variable Objects::) limit the
     number of elements to be displayed.

     Children may be hidden from display based on the value of 'set
     print max-depth' (*note Print Settings::).

 -- Function: pretty_printer.display_hint (self)
     The CLI may call this method and use its result to change the
     formatting of a value.  The result will also be supplied to an MI
     consumer as a 'displayhint' attribute of the variable being
     printed.

     This method is optional.  If it does exist, this method must return
     a string or the special value 'None'.

     Some display hints are predefined by GDB:

     'array'
          Indicate that the object being printed is "array-like".  The
          CLI uses this to respect parameters such as 'set print
          elements' and 'set print array'.

     'map'
          Indicate that the object being printed is "map-like", and that
          the children of this value can be assumed to alternate between
          keys and values.

     'string'
          Indicate that the object being printed is "string-like".  If
          the printer's 'to_string' method returns a Python string of
          some kind, then GDB will call its internal language-specific
          string-printing function to format the string.  For the CLI
          this means adding quotation marks, possibly escaping some
          characters, respecting 'set print elements', and the like.

     The special value 'None' causes GDB to apply the default display
     rules.

 -- Function: pretty_printer.to_string (self)
     GDB will call this method to display the string representation of
     the value passed to the object's constructor.

     When printing from the CLI, if the 'to_string' method exists, then
     GDB will prepend its result to the values returned by 'children'.
     Exactly how this formatting is done is dependent on the display
     hint, and may change as more hints are added.  Also, depending on
     the print settings (*note Print Settings::), the CLI may print just
     the result of 'to_string' in a stack trace, omitting the result of
     'children'.

     If this method returns a string, it is printed verbatim.

     Otherwise, if this method returns an instance of 'gdb.Value', then
     GDB prints this value.  This may result in a call to another
     pretty-printer.

     If instead the method returns a Python value which is convertible
     to a 'gdb.Value', then GDB performs the conversion and prints the
     resulting value.  Again, this may result in a call to another
     pretty-printer.  Python scalars (integers, floats, and booleans)
     and strings are convertible to 'gdb.Value'; other types are not.

     Finally, if this method returns 'None' then no further operations
     are peformed in this method and nothing is printed.

     If the result is not one of these types, an exception is raised.

   GDB provides a function which can be used to look up the default
pretty-printer for a 'gdb.Value':

 -- Function: gdb.default_visualizer (value)
     This function takes a 'gdb.Value' object as an argument.  If a
     pretty-printer for this value exists, then it is returned.  If no
     such printer exists, then this returns 'None'.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Selecting Pretty-Printers,  Next: Writing a Pretty-Printer,  Prev: Pretty Printing API,  Up: Python API

