23.2.2.16 Inferiors In Python
.............................

Programs which are being run under GDB are called inferiors (*note
Inferiors Connections and Programs::).  Python scripts can access
information about and manipulate inferiors controlled by GDB via objects
of the 'gdb.Inferior' class.

   The following inferior-related functions are available in the 'gdb'
module:

 -- Function: gdb.inferiors ()
     Return a tuple containing all inferior objects.

 -- Function: gdb.selected_inferior ()
     Return an object representing the current inferior.

   A 'gdb.Inferior' object has the following attributes:

 -- Variable: Inferior.num
     ID of inferior, as assigned by GDB.

 -- Variable: Inferior.pid
     Process ID of the inferior, as assigned by the underlying operating
     system.

 -- Variable: Inferior.was_attached
     Boolean signaling whether the inferior was created using 'attach',
     or started by GDB itself.

 -- Variable: Inferior.progspace
     The inferior's program space.  *Note Progspaces In Python::.

   A 'gdb.Inferior' object has the following methods:

 -- Function: Inferior.is_valid ()
     Returns 'True' if the 'gdb.Inferior' object is valid, 'False' if
     not.  A 'gdb.Inferior' object will become invalid if the inferior
     no longer exists within GDB.  All other 'gdb.Inferior' methods will
     throw an exception if it is invalid at the time the method is
     called.

 -- Function: Inferior.threads ()
     This method returns a tuple holding all the threads which are valid
     when it is called.  If there are no valid threads, the method will
     return an empty tuple.

 -- Function: Inferior.architecture ()
     Return the 'gdb.Architecture' (*note Architectures In Python::) for
     this inferior.  This represents the architecture of the inferior as
     a whole.  Some platforms can have multiple architectures in a
     single address space, so this may not match the architecture of a
     particular frame (*note Frames In Python::).

 -- Function: Inferior.read_memory (address, length)
     Read LENGTH addressable memory units from the inferior, starting at
     ADDRESS.  Returns a buffer object, which behaves much like an array
     or a string.  It can be modified and given to the
     'Inferior.write_memory' function.  In Python 3, the return value is
     a 'memoryview' object.

 -- Function: Inferior.write_memory (address, buffer [, length])
     Write the contents of BUFFER to the inferior, starting at ADDRESS.
     The BUFFER parameter must be a Python object which supports the
     buffer protocol, i.e., a string, an array or the object returned
     from 'Inferior.read_memory'.  If given, LENGTH determines the
     number of addressable memory units from BUFFER to be written.

 -- Function: Inferior.search_memory (address, length, pattern)
     Search a region of the inferior memory starting at ADDRESS with the
     given LENGTH using the search pattern supplied in PATTERN.  The
     PATTERN parameter must be a Python object which supports the buffer
     protocol, i.e., a string, an array or the object returned from
     'gdb.read_memory'.  Returns a Python 'Long' containing the address
     where the pattern was found, or 'None' if the pattern could not be
     found.

 -- Function: Inferior.thread_from_handle (handle)
     Return the thread object corresponding to HANDLE, a thread library
     specific data structure such as 'pthread_t' for pthreads library
     implementations.

     The function 'Inferior.thread_from_thread_handle' provides the same
     functionality, but use of 'Inferior.thread_from_thread_handle' is
     deprecated.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Events In Python,  Next: Threads In Python,  Prev: Inferiors In Python,  Up: Python API

