23.2.2.22 Writing new convenience functions
...........................................

You can implement new convenience functions (*note Convenience Vars::)
in Python.  A convenience function is an instance of a subclass of the
class 'gdb.Function'.

 -- Function: Function.__init__ (name)
     The initializer for 'Function' registers the new function with GDB.
     The argument NAME is the name of the function, a string.  The
     function will be visible to the user as a convenience variable of
     type 'internal function', whose name is the same as the given NAME.

     The documentation for the new function is taken from the
     documentation string for the new class.

 -- Function: Function.invoke (*ARGS)
     When a convenience function is evaluated, its arguments are
     converted to instances of 'gdb.Value', and then the function's
     'invoke' method is called.  Note that GDB does not predetermine the
     arity of convenience functions.  Instead, all available arguments
     are passed to 'invoke', following the standard Python calling
     convention.  In particular, a convenience function can have default
     values for parameters without ill effect.

     The return value of this method is used as its value in the
     enclosing expression.  If an ordinary Python value is returned, it
     is converted to a 'gdb.Value' following the usual rules.

   The following code snippet shows how a trivial convenience function
can be implemented in Python:

     class Greet (gdb.Function):
       """Return string to greet someone.
     Takes a name as argument."""

       def __init__ (self):
         super (Greet, self).__init__ ("greet")

       def invoke (self, name):
         return "Hello, %s!" % name.string ()

     Greet ()

   The last line instantiates the class, and is necessary to trigger the
registration of the function with GDB.  Depending on how the Python code
is read into GDB, you may need to import the 'gdb' module explicitly.

   Now you can use the function in an expression:

     (gdb) print $greet("Bob")
     $1 = "Hello, Bob!"

File: gdb.info,  Node: Progspaces In Python,  Next: Objfiles In Python,  Prev: Functions In Python,  Up: Python API

