23.2.1 Python Commands
----------------------

GDB provides two commands for accessing the Python interpreter, and one
related setting:

'python-interactive [COMMAND]'
'pi [COMMAND]'
     Without an argument, the 'python-interactive' command can be used
     to start an interactive Python prompt.  To return to GDB, type the
     'EOF' character (e.g., 'Ctrl-D' on an empty prompt).

     Alternatively, a single-line Python command can be given as an
     argument and evaluated.  If the command is an expression, the
     result will be printed; otherwise, nothing will be printed.  For
     example:

          (gdb) python-interactive 2 + 3
          5

'python [COMMAND]'
'py [COMMAND]'
     The 'python' command can be used to evaluate Python code.

     If given an argument, the 'python' command will evaluate the
     argument as a Python command.  For example:

          (gdb) python print 23
          23

     If you do not provide an argument to 'python', it will act as a
     multi-line command, like 'define'.  In this case, the Python script
     is made up of subsequent command lines, given after the 'python'
     command.  This command list is terminated using a line containing
     'end'.  For example:

          (gdb) python
          >print 23
          >end
          23

'set python print-stack'
     By default, GDB will print only the message component of a Python
     exception when an error occurs in a Python script.  This can be
     controlled using 'set python print-stack': if 'full', then full
     Python stack printing is enabled; if 'none', then Python stack and
     message printing is disabled; if 'message', the default, only the
     message component of the error is printed.

   It is also possible to execute a Python script from the GDB
interpreter:

'source script-name'
     The script name must end with '.py' and GDB must be configured to
     recognize the script language based on filename extension using the
     'script-extension' setting.  *Note Extending GDB: Extending GDB.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Python API,  Next: Python Auto-loading,  Prev: Python Commands,  Up: Python

