23.2.2.8 Type Printing API
..........................

GDB provides a way for Python code to customize type display.  This is
mainly useful for substituting canonical typedef names for types.

   A "type printer" is just a Python object conforming to a certain
protocol.  A simple base class implementing the protocol is provided;
see *note gdb.types::.  A type printer must supply at least:

 -- Instance Variable of type_printer: enabled
     A boolean which is True if the printer is enabled, and False
     otherwise.  This is manipulated by the 'enable type-printer' and
     'disable type-printer' commands.

 -- Instance Variable of type_printer: name
     The name of the type printer.  This must be a string.  This is used
     by the 'enable type-printer' and 'disable type-printer' commands.

 -- Method on type_printer: instantiate (self)
     This is called by GDB at the start of type-printing.  It is only
     called if the type printer is enabled.  This method must return a
     new object that supplies a 'recognize' method, as described below.

   When displaying a type, say via the 'ptype' command, GDB will compute
a list of type recognizers.  This is done by iterating first over the
per-objfile type printers (*note Objfiles In Python::), followed by the
per-progspace type printers (*note Progspaces In Python::), and finally
the global type printers.

   GDB will call the 'instantiate' method of each enabled type printer.
If this method returns 'None', then the result is ignored; otherwise, it
is appended to the list of recognizers.

   Then, when GDB is going to display a type name, it iterates over the
list of recognizers.  For each one, it calls the recognition function,
stopping if the function returns a non-'None' value.  The recognition
function is defined as:

 -- Method on type_recognizer: recognize (self, type)
     If TYPE is not recognized, return 'None'.  Otherwise, return a
     string which is to be printed as the name of TYPE.  The TYPE
     argument will be an instance of 'gdb.Type' (*note Types In
     Python::).

   GDB uses this two-pass approach so that type printers can efficiently
cache information without holding on to it too long.  For example, it
can be convenient to look up type information in a type printer and hold
it for a recognizer's lifetime; if a single pass were done then type
printers would have to make use of the event system in order to avoid
holding information that could become stale as the inferior changed.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Frame Filter API,  Next: Frame Decorator API,  Prev: Type Printing API,  Up: Python API

