23.2.2.9 Filtering Frames
.........................

Frame filters are Python objects that manipulate the visibility of a
frame or frames when a backtrace (*note Backtrace::) is printed by GDB.

   Only commands that print a backtrace, or, in the case of GDB/MI
commands (*note GDB/MI::), those that return a collection of frames are
affected.  The commands that work with frame filters are:

   'backtrace' (*note The backtrace command: backtrace-command.),
'-stack-list-frames' (*note The -stack-list-frames command:
-stack-list-frames.), '-stack-list-variables' (*note The
-stack-list-variables command: -stack-list-variables.),
'-stack-list-arguments' *note The -stack-list-arguments command:
-stack-list-arguments.) and '-stack-list-locals' (*note The
-stack-list-locals command: -stack-list-locals.).

   A frame filter works by taking an iterator as an argument, applying
actions to the contents of that iterator, and returning another iterator
(or, possibly, the same iterator it was provided in the case where the
filter does not perform any operations).  Typically, frame filters
utilize tools such as the Python's 'itertools' module to work with and
create new iterators from the source iterator.  Regardless of how a
filter chooses to apply actions, it must not alter the underlying GDB
frame or frames, or attempt to alter the call-stack within GDB.  This
preserves data integrity within GDB.  Frame filters are executed on a
priority basis and care should be taken that some frame filters may have
been executed before, and that some frame filters will be executed
after.

   An important consideration when designing frame filters, and well
worth reflecting upon, is that frame filters should avoid unwinding the
call stack if possible.  Some stacks can run very deep, into the tens of
thousands in some cases.  To search every frame when a frame filter
executes may be too expensive at that step.  The frame filter cannot
know how many frames it has to iterate over, and it may have to iterate
through them all.  This ends up duplicating effort as GDB performs this
iteration when it prints the frames.  If the filter can defer unwinding
frames until frame decorators are executed, after the last filter has
executed, it should.  *Note Frame Decorator API::, for more information
on decorators.  Also, there are examples for both frame decorators and
filters in later chapters.  *Note Writing a Frame Filter::, for more
information.

   The Python dictionary 'gdb.frame_filters' contains key/object
pairings that comprise a frame filter.  Frame filters in this dictionary
are called 'global' frame filters, and they are available when debugging
all inferiors.  These frame filters must register with the dictionary
directly.  In addition to the 'global' dictionary, there are other
dictionaries that are loaded with different inferiors via auto-loading
(*note Python Auto-loading::).  The two other areas where frame filter
dictionaries can be found are: 'gdb.Progspace' which contains a
'frame_filters' dictionary attribute, and each 'gdb.Objfile' object
which also contains a 'frame_filters' dictionary attribute.

   When a command is executed from GDB that is compatible with frame
filters, GDB combines the 'global', 'gdb.Progspace' and all
'gdb.Objfile' dictionaries currently loaded.  All of the 'gdb.Objfile'
dictionaries are combined, as several frames, and thus several object
files, might be in use.  GDB then prunes any frame filter whose
'enabled' attribute is 'False'.  This pruned list is then sorted
according to the 'priority' attribute in each filter.

   Once the dictionaries are combined, pruned and sorted, GDB creates an
iterator which wraps each frame in the call stack in a 'FrameDecorator'
object, and calls each filter in order.  The output from the previous
filter will always be the input to the next filter, and so on.

   Frame filters have a mandatory interface which each frame filter must
implement, defined here:

 -- Function: FrameFilter.filter (iterator)
     GDB will call this method on a frame filter when it has reached the
     order in the priority list for that filter.

     For example, if there are four frame filters:

          Name         Priority

          Filter1      5
          Filter2      10
          Filter3      100
          Filter4      1

     The order that the frame filters will be called is:

          Filter3 -> Filter2 -> Filter1 -> Filter4

     Note that the output from 'Filter3' is passed to the input of
     'Filter2', and so on.

     This 'filter' method is passed a Python iterator.  This iterator
     contains a sequence of frame decorators that wrap each 'gdb.Frame',
     or a frame decorator that wraps another frame decorator.  The first
     filter that is executed in the sequence of frame filters will
     receive an iterator entirely comprised of default 'FrameDecorator'
     objects.  However, after each frame filter is executed, the
     previous frame filter may have wrapped some or all of the frame
     decorators with their own frame decorator.  As frame decorators
     must also conform to a mandatory interface, these decorators can be
     assumed to act in a uniform manner (*note Frame Decorator API::).

     This method must return an object conforming to the Python iterator
     protocol.  Each item in the iterator must be an object conforming
     to the frame decorator interface.  If a frame filter does not wish
     to perform any operations on this iterator, it should return that
     iterator untouched.

     This method is not optional.  If it does not exist, GDB will raise
     and print an error.

 -- Variable: FrameFilter.name
     The 'name' attribute must be Python string which contains the name
     of the filter displayed by GDB (*note Frame Filter Management::).
     This attribute may contain any combination of letters or numbers.
     Care should be taken to ensure that it is unique.  This attribute
     is mandatory.

 -- Variable: FrameFilter.enabled
     The 'enabled' attribute must be Python boolean.  This attribute
     indicates to GDB whether the frame filter is enabled, and should be
     considered when frame filters are executed.  If 'enabled' is
     'True', then the frame filter will be executed when any of the
     backtrace commands detailed earlier in this chapter are executed.
     If 'enabled' is 'False', then the frame filter will not be
     executed.  This attribute is mandatory.

 -- Variable: FrameFilter.priority
     The 'priority' attribute must be Python integer.  This attribute
     controls the order of execution in relation to other frame filters.
     There are no imposed limits on the range of 'priority' other than
     it must be a valid integer.  The higher the 'priority' attribute,
     the sooner the frame filter will be executed in relation to other
     frame filters.  Although 'priority' can be negative, it is
     recommended practice to assume zero is the lowest priority that a
     frame filter can be assigned.  Frame filters that have the same
     priority are executed in unsorted order in that priority slot.
     This attribute is mandatory.  100 is a good default priority.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Frame Decorator API,  Next: Writing a Frame Filter,  Prev: Frame Filter API,  Up: Python API

