23.2.2.33 Python representation of architectures
................................................

GDB uses architecture specific parameters and artifacts in a number of
its various computations.  An architecture is represented by an instance
of the 'gdb.Architecture' class.

   A 'gdb.Architecture' class has the following methods:

 -- Function: Architecture.name ()
     Return the name (string value) of the architecture.

 -- Function: Architecture.disassemble (START_PC [, END_PC [, COUNT]])
     Return a list of disassembled instructions starting from the memory
     address START_PC.  The optional arguments END_PC and COUNT
     determine the number of instructions in the returned list.  If both
     the optional arguments END_PC and COUNT are specified, then a list
     of at most COUNT disassembled instructions whose start address
     falls in the closed memory address interval from START_PC to END_PC
     are returned.  If END_PC is not specified, but COUNT is specified,
     then COUNT number of instructions starting from the address
     START_PC are returned.  If COUNT is not specified but END_PC is
     specified, then all instructions whose start address falls in the
     closed memory address interval from START_PC to END_PC are
     returned.  If neither END_PC nor COUNT are specified, then a single
     instruction at START_PC is returned.  For all of these cases, each
     element of the returned list is a Python 'dict' with the following
     string keys:

     'addr'
          The value corresponding to this key is a Python long integer
          capturing the memory address of the instruction.

     'asm'
          The value corresponding to this key is a string value which
          represents the instruction with assembly language mnemonics.
          The assembly language flavor used is the same as that
          specified by the current CLI variable 'disassembly-flavor'.
          *Note Machine Code::.

     'length'
          The value corresponding to this key is the length (integer
          value) of the instruction in bytes.

 -- Function: Architecture.registers ([ REGGROUP ])
     Return a 'gdb.RegisterDescriptorIterator' (*note Registers In
     Python::) for all of the registers in REGGROUP, a string that is
     the name of a register group.  If REGGROUP is omitted, or is the
     empty string, then the register group 'all' is assumed.

 -- Function: Architecture.register_groups ()
     Return a 'gdb.RegisterGroupsIterator' (*note Registers In Python::)
     for all of the register groups available for the
     'gdb.Architecture'.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Registers In Python,  Next: TUI Windows In Python,  Prev: Architectures In Python,  Up: Python API

