23.2.2.35 Implementing new TUI windows
......................................

New TUI (*note TUI::) windows can be implemented in Python.

 -- Function: gdb.register_window_type (NAME, FACTORY)
     Because TUI windows are created and destroyed depending on the
     layout the user chooses, new window types are implemented by
     registering a factory function with GDB.

     NAME is the name of the new window.  It's an error to try to
     replace one of the built-in windows, but other window types can be
     replaced.

     FUNCTION is a factory function that is called to create the TUI
     window.  This is called with a single argument of type
     'gdb.TuiWindow', described below.  It should return an object that
     implements the TUI window protocol, also described below.

   As mentioned above, when a factory function is called, it is passed a
an object of type 'gdb.TuiWindow'.  This object has these methods and
attributes:

 -- Function: TuiWindow.is_valid ()
     This method returns 'True' when this window is valid.  When the
     user changes the TUI layout, windows no longer visible in the new
     layout will be destroyed.  At this point, the 'gdb.TuiWindow' will
     no longer be valid, and methods (and attributes) other than
     'is_valid' will throw an exception.

 -- Variable: TuiWindow.width
     This attribute holds the width of the window.  It is not writable.

 -- Variable: TuiWindow.height
     This attribute holds the height of the window.  It is not writable.

 -- Variable: TuiWindow.title
     This attribute holds the window's title, a string.  This is
     normally displayed above the window.  This attribute can be
     modified.

 -- Function: TuiWindow.erase ()
     Remove all the contents of the window.

 -- Function: TuiWindow.write (STRING)
     Write STRING to the window.  STRING can contain ANSI terminal
     escape styling sequences; GDB will translate these as appropriate
     for the terminal.

   The factory function that you supply should return an object
conforming to the TUI window protocol.  These are the method that can be
called on this object, which is referred to below as the "window
object".  The methods documented below are optional; if the object does
not implement one of these methods, GDB will not attempt to call it.
Additional new methods may be added to the window protocol in the
future.  GDB guarantees that they will begin with a lower-case letter,
so you can start implementation methods with upper-case letters or
underscore to avoid any future conflicts.

 -- Function: Window.close ()
     When the TUI window is closed, the 'gdb.TuiWindow' object will be
     put into an invalid state.  At this time, GDB will call 'close'
     method on the window object.

     After this method is called, GDB will discard any references it
     holds on this window object, and will no longer call methods on
     this object.

 -- Function: Window.render ()
     In some situations, a TUI window can change size.  For example,
     this can happen if the user resizes the terminal, or changes the
     layout.  When this happens, GDB will call the 'render' method on
     the window object.

     If your window is intended to update in response to changes in the
     inferior, you will probably also want to register event listeners
     and send output to the 'gdb.TuiWindow'.

 -- Function: Window.hscroll (NUM)
     This is a request to scroll the window horizontally.  NUM is the
     amount by which to scroll, with negative numbers meaning to scroll
     right.  In the TUI model, it is the viewport that moves, not the
     contents.  A positive argument should cause the viewport to move
     right, and so the content should appear to move to the left.

 -- Function: Window.vscroll (NUM)
     This is a request to scroll the window vertically.  NUM is the
     amount by which to scroll, with negative numbers meaning to scroll
     backward.  In the TUI model, it is the viewport that moves, not the
     contents.  A positive argument should cause the viewport to move
     down, and so the content should appear to move up.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Python Auto-loading,  Next: Python modules,  Prev: Python API,  Up: Python

23.2.3 Python Auto-loading
--------------------------

When a new object file is read (for example, due to the 'file' command,
or because the inferior has loaded a shared library), GDB will look for
Python support scripts in several ways: 'OBJFILE-gdb.py' and
'.debug_gdb_scripts' section.  *Note Auto-loading extensions::.

   The auto-loading feature is useful for supplying application-specific
debugging commands and scripts.

   Auto-loading can be enabled or disabled, and the list of auto-loaded
scripts can be printed.

'set auto-load python-scripts [on|off]'
     Enable or disable the auto-loading of Python scripts.

'show auto-load python-scripts'
     Show whether auto-loading of Python scripts is enabled or disabled.

'info auto-load python-scripts [REGEXP]'
     Print the list of all Python scripts that GDB auto-loaded.

     Also printed is the list of Python scripts that were mentioned in
     the '.debug_gdb_scripts' section and were either not found (*note
     dotdebug_gdb_scripts section::) or were not auto-loaded due to
     'auto-load safe-path' rejection (*note Auto-loading::).  This is
     useful because their names are not printed when GDB tries to load
     them and fails.  There may be many of them, and printing an error
     message for each one is problematic.

     If REGEXP is supplied only Python scripts with matching names are
     printed.

     Example:

          (gdb) info auto-load python-scripts
          Loaded Script
          Yes    py-section-script.py
                 full name: /tmp/py-section-script.py
          No     my-foo-pretty-printers.py

   When reading an auto-loaded file or script, GDB sets the "current
objfile".  This is available via the 'gdb.current_objfile' function
(*note Objfiles In Python::).  This can be useful for registering
objfile-specific pretty-printers and frame-filters.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Python modules,  Prev: Python Auto-loading,  Up: Python

23.2.4 Python modules
---------------------

GDB comes with several modules to assist writing Python code.

* Menu:

* gdb.printing::       Building and registering pretty-printers.
* gdb.types::          Utilities for working with types.
* gdb.prompt::         Utilities for prompt value substitution.

File: gdb.info,  Node: gdb.printing,  Next: gdb.types,  Up: Python modules

