   Persistence
       Flag --persistent is used to include persistent domains in the returned list.  To  include  transient  domains
       specify --transient.

   Existence of managed save image
       To  list  domains  having a managed save image specify flag --with-managed-save. For domains that don't have a
       managed save image specify --without-managed-save.

   Domain state
       The following filter flags select a domain by its state: --state-running for running  domains,  --state-paused
       for  paused  domains, --state-shutoff for turned off domains and --state-other for all other states as a fall-
       back.

   Autostarting domains
       To list autostarting domains use the flag --autostart. To list domains with this feature disabled use --no-au-
       tostart.

   Snapshot existence
       Domains that have snapshot images can be listed using flag --with-snapshot, domains without a snapshot --with-
       out-snapshot.

   Checkpoint existence
       Domains that have checkpoints can be listed using flag --with-checkpoint, domains without a checkpoint --with-
       out-checkpoint.

       When  talking  to  older  servers,  this command is forced to use a series of API calls with an inherent race,
       where a domain might not be listed or might appear more than once if it changed state between calls while  the
       list was being collected.  Newer servers do not have this problem.

       If  --managed-save  is  specified, then domains that have managed save state (only possible if they are in the
       shut off state, so you need to specify --inactive or --all to actually list them) will instead show  as  saved
       in the listing. This flag is usable only with the default --table output.  Note that this flag does not filter
       the list of domains.

       If --name is specified, domain names are printed instead of the table formatted one per  line.  If  --uuid  is
       specified domain's UUID's are printed instead of names. Flag --table specifies that the legacy table-formatted
       output should be used. This is the default.

       If both --name and --uuid are specified, domain UUID's and names are printed side by side without any  header.
       Flag  --table  specifies that the legacy table-formatted output should be used. This is the default if neither
       --name nor --uuid are specified. Option --table is mutually exclusive with options --uuid and --name.

       If --title is specified, then the short domain description (title) is printed in an extra column. This flag is
       usable only with the default --table output.

       Example 2:

          $ virsh list --title
            Id    Name        State      Title
           -------------------------------------------
            0     Domain-0    running    Mailserver 1
            2     fedora      paused

