   hypervisor-cpu-baseline
       Syntax:

          hypervisor-cpu-baseline FILE [virttype] [emulator] [arch] [machine] [--features] [--migratable]

       Compute a baseline CPU which will be compatible with all CPUs defined in an XML file and with the CPU the  hy-
       pervisor  is able to provide on the host. (This is different from cpu-baseline which does not consider any hy-
       pervisor abilities when computing the baseline CPU.)

       The XML FILE may contain either host or guest CPU definitions describing the host CPU model. The host CPU def-
       inition is the <cpu> element and its contents as printed by capabilities command. The guest CPU definition may
       be created from the host CPU model found in domain capabilities XML (printed by domcapabilities  command).  In
       addition  to the <cpu> elements, this command accepts full capabilities XMLs, or domain capabilities XMLs con-
       taining the CPU definitions. For best results, use only the CPU definitions from domain capabilities.

       When FILE contains only a single CPU definition, the command will print the same CPU with restrictions imposed
       by the capabilities of the hypervisor.  Specifically, running th virsh hypervisor-cpu-baseline command with no
       additional options on the result of virsh domcapabilities will transform the host CPU model from domain  capa-
       bilities XML to a form directly usable in domain XML.

       The  virttype  option  specifies  the  virtualization type (usable in the 'type' attribute of the <domain> top
       level element from the domain XML). emulator specifies the path to the emulator, arch specifies the CPU archi-
       tecture,  and  machine specifies the machine type. If --features is specified, then the resulting XML descrip-
       tion will explicitly include all features that make up the CPU, without this option features that are part  of
       the CPU model will not be listed in the XML description. If --migratable is specified, features that block mi-
       gration will not be included in the resulting CPU.

DOMAIN COMMANDS
       The following commands manipulate domains directly, as stated previously most  commands  take  domain  as  the
       first parameter. The domain can be specified as a short integer, a name or a full UUID.

