   save
       Syntax:

          save domain state-file [--bypass-cache] [--xml file]
             [{--running | --paused}] [--verbose]

       Saves  a  running  domain  (RAM,  but  not disk state) to a state file so that it can be restored later.  Once
       saved, the domain will no longer be running on the system, thus the memory allocated for the  domain  will  be
       free  for other domains to use.  virsh restore restores from this state file.  If --bypass-cache is specified,
       the save will avoid the file system cache, although this may slow down the operation.

       The progress may be monitored using domjobinfo virsh command and canceled with domjobabort  command  (sent  by
       another  virsh  instance). Another option is to send SIGINT (usually with Ctrl-C) to the virsh process running
       save command. --verbose displays the progress of save.

       This is roughly equivalent to doing a hibernate on a running computer, with all the  same  limitations.   Open
       network connections may be severed upon restore, as TCP timeouts may have expired.

       --xml file is usually omitted, but can be used to supply an alternative XML file for use on the restored guest
       with changes only in the host-specific portions of the domain XML.  For example, it can be used to account for
       file  naming  differences that are planned to be made via disk snapshots of underlying storage after the guest
       is saved.

       Normally, restoring a saved image will decide between running or paused based on the state the domain  was  in
       when  the  save  was done; passing either the --running or --paused flag will allow overriding which state the
       restore should use.

       Domain saved state files assume that disk images will be unchanged between the  creation  and  restore  point.
       For  a  more  complete system restore point, where the disk state is saved alongside the memory state, see the
       snapshot family of commands.

