   send-key
       Syntax:

          send-key domain [--codeset codeset] [--holdtime holdtime] keycode...

       Parse  the  keycode sequence as keystrokes to send to domain.  Each keycode can either be a numeric value or a
       symbolic name from the corresponding codeset.  If --holdtime is given, each keystroke will be  held  for  that
       many  milliseconds.  The default codeset is linux, but use of the --codeset option allows other codesets to be
       chosen.

       If multiple keycodes are specified, they are all sent simultaneously to the guest, and they may be received in
       random order. If you need distinct keypresses, you must use multiple send-key invocations.

       o linux

         The  numeric  values  are those defined by the Linux generic input event subsystem. The symbolic names match
         the corresponding Linux key constant macro names.

         See virkeycode-linux(7) and virkeyname-linux(7)

       o xt

         The numeric values are those defined by the original XT keyboard controller. No symbolic names are provided

         See virkeycode-xt(7)

       o atset1

         The numeric values are those defined by the AT keyboard controller, set 1 (aka XT compatible set).  Extended
         keycoes from atset1 may differ from extended keycodes in the xt codeset. No symbolic names are provided

         See virkeycode-atset1(7)

       o atset2

         The numeric values are those defined by the AT keyboard controller, set 2. No symbolic names are provided

         See virkeycode-atset2(7)

       o atset3

         The numeric values are those defined by the AT keyboard controller, set 3 (aka PS/2 compatible set). No sym-
         bolic names are provided

         See virkeycode-atset3(7)

       o os_x

         The numeric values are those defined by the macOS keyboard input subsystem. The  symbolic  names  match  the
         corresponding macOS key constant macro names

         See virkeycode-osx(7) and virkeyname-osx(7)

       o xt_kbd

         The  numeric values are those defined by the Linux KBD device.  These are a variant on the original XT code-
         set, but often with different encoding for extended keycodes. No symbolic names are provided.

         See virkeycode-xtkbd(7)

       o win32

         The numeric values are those defined by the Win32 keyboard input subsystem. The  symbolic  names  match  the
         corresponding Win32 key constant macro names

         See virkeycode-win32(7) and virkeyname-win32(7)

       o usb

         The  numeric values are those defined by the USB HID specification for keyboard input. No symbolic names are
         provided

         See virkeycode-usb(7)

       o qnum

         The numeric values are those defined by the QNUM extension for sending raw keycodes. These are a variant  on
         the  XT  codeset,  but extended keycodes have the low bit of the second byte set, instead of the high bit of
         the first byte. No symbolic names are provided.

         See virkeycode-qnum(7)

       Examples:

          # send three strokes 'k', 'e', 'y', using xt codeset. these
          # are all pressed simultaneously and may be received by the guest
          # in random order
          virsh send-key dom --codeset xt 37 18 21

          # send one stroke 'right-ctrl+C'
          virsh send-key dom KEY_RIGHTCTRL KEY_C

          # send a tab, held for 1 second
          virsh send-key --holdtime 1000 0xf

