   setvcpus
       Syntax:

          setvcpus domain count [--maximum] [[--config] [--live] | [--current]] [--guest] [--hotpluggable]

       Change the number of virtual CPUs active in a guest domain.  By default, this command works  on  active  guest
       domains.  To change the settings for an inactive guest domain, use the --config flag.

       The  count  value  may  be limited by host, hypervisor, or a limit coming from the original description of the
       guest domain. For Xen, you can only adjust the virtual CPUs of a running domain if the domain is  paravirtual-
       ized.

       If  the  --config  flag is specified, the change is made to the stored XML configuration for the guest domain,
       and will only take effect when the guest domain is next started.

       If --live is specified, the guest domain must be active, and the change takes  place  immediately.   Both  the
       --config  and  --live  flags may be specified together if supported by the hypervisor.  If this command is run
       before the guest has finished booting, the guest may fail to process the change.

       If --current is specified, affect the current guest state.

       When no flags are given, the --live flag is assumed and the guest domain must be active.  In this situation it
       is up to the hypervisor whether the --config flag is also assumed, and therefore whether the XML configuration
       is adjusted to make the change persistent.

       If --guest is specified, then the count of cpus is modified in the guest instead of the hypervisor. This  flag
       is usable only for live domains and may require guest agent to be configured in the guest.

       To  allow  adding vcpus to persistent definitions that can be later hotunplugged after the domain is booted it
       is necessary to specify the --hotpluggable flag. Vcpus added to live domains supporting vcpu unplug are  auto-
       matically marked as hotpluggable.

       The  --maximum  flag controls the maximum number of virtual cpus that can be hot-plugged the next time the do-
       main is booted.  As such, it must only be used with the --config flag, and not with the --live or  the  --cur-
       rent  flag.  Note  that  it  may not be possible to change the maximum vcpu count if the processor topology is
       specified for the guest.

