   undefine
       Syntax:

          undefine domain [--managed-save] [--snapshots-metadata]
             [--checkpoints-metadata] [--nvram] [--keep-nvram]
             [ {--storage volumes | --remove-all-storage
                [--delete-storage-volume-snapshots]} --wipe-storage]

       Undefine  a  domain. If the domain is running, this converts it to a transient domain, without stopping it. If
       the domain is inactive, the domain configuration is removed.

       The --managed-save flag guarantees that any managed save image (see the managedsave command) is  also  cleaned
       up.  Without the flag, attempts to undefine a domain with a managed save image will fail.

       The  --snapshots-metadata  flag guarantees that any snapshots (see the snapshot-list command) are also cleaned
       up when undefining an inactive domain.  Without the flag, attempts to undefine an inactive domain  with  snap-
       shot metadata will fail.  If the domain is active, this flag is ignored.

       The  --checkpoints-metadata  flag  guarantees  that any checkpoints (see the checkpoint-list command) are also
       cleaned up when undefining an inactive domain.  Without the flag, attempts to undefine an inactive domain with
       checkpoint metadata will fail.  If the domain is active, this flag is ignored.

       --nvram  and  --keep-nvram specify accordingly to delete or keep nvram (/domain/os/nvram/) file. If the domain
       has an nvram file and the flags are omitted, the undefine will fail.

       The --storage flag takes a parameter volumes, which is a comma separated list of volume target names or source
       paths  of storage volumes to be removed along with the undefined domain. Volumes can be undefined and thus re-
       moved only on inactive domains. Volume deletion is only attempted after the domain is undefined; if not all of
       the  requested  volumes  could  be deleted, the error message indicates what still remains behind. If a volume
       path is not found in the domain definition, it's treated as if the volume was successfully deleted. Only  vol-
       umes  managed  by  libvirt in storage pools can be removed this way.  (See domblklist for list of target names
       associated to a domain).  Example: --storage vda,/path/to/storage.img

       The --remove-all-storage flag specifies that all of the domain's storage volumes should be deleted.

       The --delete-storage-volume-snapshots (previously --delete-snapshots) flag specifies that any snapshots  asso-
       ciated  with  the  storage volume should be deleted as well. Requires the --remove-all-storage flag to be pro-
       vided. Not all storage drivers support this option, presently only rbd. Using this when also removing  volumes
       handled by a storage driver which does not support the flag will result in failure.

       The flag --wipe-storage specifies that the storage volumes should be wiped before removal.

       NOTE: For an inactive domain, the domain name or UUID must be used as the domain.

