   detach-device
       Syntax:

          detach-device domain FILE [[[--live] [--config] |
             [--current]] | [--persistent]]

       Detach  a  device  from  the  domain,  takes  the same kind of XML descriptions as command attach-device.  For
       passthrough host devices, see also nodedev-reattach, needed if the device does not use managed mode.

       Note: The supplied XML description of the device should be as specific as its definition in  the  domain  XML.
       The set of attributes used to match the device are internal to the drivers. Using a partial definition, or at-
       tempting to detach a device that is not present in the domain XML, but shares some  specific  attributes  with
       one that is present, may lead to unexpected results.

       Quirk:  Device unplug is asynchronous in most cases and requires guest cooperation. This means that it's up to
       the discretion of the guest to disallow or delay the unplug arbitrarily. As the libvirt API used in this  com-
       mand  was  designed  as synchronous it returns success after some timeout even if the device was not unplugged
       yet to allow further interactions with the domain e.g. if the guest is unresponsive.  Callers  which  need  to
       make  sure  that the device was unplugged can use libvirt events (see virsh event) to be notified when the de-
       vice is removed. Note that the event may arrive before the command returns.

       If --live is specified, affect a running domain.  If --config is specified, affect the next startup of a  per-
       sistent  domain.   If --current is specified, affect the current domain state.  Both --live and --config flags
       may be given, but --current is exclusive. When no flag is specified legacy API is used whose behavior  depends
       on the hypervisor driver.

       For compatibility purposes, --persistent behaves like --config for an offline domain, and like --live --config
       for a running domain.

       Note that older versions of virsh used --config as an alias for --persistent.

