   vol-create-as
       Syntax:

          vol-create-as pool-or-uuid name capacity [--allocation size] [--format string]
             [--backing-vol vol-name-or-key-or-path]
             [--backing-vol-format string] [--prealloc-metadata] [--print-xml]

       Create  a  volume  from  a set of arguments unless --print-xml is specified, in which case just the XML of the
       volume object is printed out without any actual object creation.

       pool-or-uuid is the name or UUID of the storage pool to create the volume in.

       name is the name of the new volume. For a disk pool, this must match the partition name as determined from the
       pool's  source device path and the next available partition. For example, a source device path of /dev/sdb and
       there are no partitions on the disk, then the name must be sdb1 with the next name being sdb2 and so on.

       capacity is the size of the volume to be created, as a scaled integer (see NOTES above), defaulting  to  bytes
       if there is no suffix.

       --allocation  size  is  the initial size to be allocated in the volume, also as a scaled integer defaulting to
       bytes.

       --format string is used in file based storage pools to specify the volume file  format  to  use;  raw,  bochs,
       qcow,  qcow2,  vmdk,  qed. Use extended for disk storage pools in order to create an extended partition (other
       values are validity checked but not preserved when libvirtd is restarted or the pool is refreshed).

       --backing-vol vol-name-or-key-or-path is the source backing volume to be used if taking a snapshot of  an  ex-
       isting volume.

       --backing-vol-format  string is the format of the snapshot backing volume; raw, bochs, qcow, qcow2, qed, vmdk,
       host_device. These are, however, meant for file based storage pools.

       [--prealloc-metadata] preallocate metadata (for qcow2 images which don't support full allocation). This option
       creates a sparse image file with metadata, resulting in higher performance compared to images with no preallo-
       cation and only slightly higher initial disk space usage.

