   vol-wipe
       Syntax:

          vol-wipe vol-name-or-key-or-path [--pool pool-or-uuid] [--algorithm algorithm]

       Wipe a volume, ensure data previously on the volume is not accessible to future reads.

       vol-name-or-key-or-path is the name or key or path of the volume to wipe.  It is possible to choose  different
       wiping algorithms instead of re-writing volume with zeroes.

       --pool  pool-or-uuid  is the name or UUID of the storage pool the volume is in. If the volume name is provided
       instead of the key or path, then providing the pool is necessary to find the volume to  be  wiped;  otherwise,
       the first volume found by the key or path will be used.

       Use  the  --algorithm switch choosing from the list of the following algorithms in order to define which algo-
       rithm to use for the wipe.

       Supported algorithms

       o zero       - 1-pass all zeroes

       o nnsa       - 4-pass NNSA Policy Letter NAP-14.1-C (XVI-8) for sanitizing removable  and  non-removable  hard
         disks: random x2, 0x00, verify.

       o dod         -  4-pass DoD 5220.22-M section 8-306 procedure for sanitizing removable and non-removable rigid
         disks: random, 0x00, 0xff, verify.

       o bsi        - 9-pass method recommended by the German Center  of  Security  in  Information  Technologies  (-
         http://www.bsi.bund.de): 0xff, 0xfe, 0xfd, 0xfb, 0xf7, 0xef, 0xdf, 0xbf, 0x7f.

       o gutmann    - The canonical 35-pass sequence described in Gutmann's paper.

       o schneier    - 7-pass method described by Bruce Schneier in "Applied Cryptography" (1996): 0x00, 0xff, random
         x5.

       o pfitzner7  - Roy Pfitzner's 7-random-pass method: random x7.

       o pfitzner33 - Roy Pfitzner's 33-random-pass method: random x33.

       o random     - 1-pass pattern: random.

       o trim       - 1-pass trimming the volume using TRIM or DISCARD

       Note: The scrub binary will be used to handle the 'nnsa', 'dod', 'bsi', 'gutmann', 'schneier', 'pfitzner7' and
       'pfitzner33' algorithms.  The availability of the algorithms may be limited by the version of the scrub binary
       installed on the host. The 'zero' algorithm will write zeroes to the entire volume. For some volumes, such  as
       sparse  or  rbd  volumes,  this may result in completely filling the volume with zeroes making it appear to be
       completely full. As an alternative, the 'trim' algorithm does not overwrite all the data in a  volume,  rather
       it  expects  the storage driver to be able to discard all bytes in a volume. It is up to the storage driver to
       handle how the discarding occurs. Not all storage drivers or volume types can support 'trim'.

