   snapshot-create
       Syntax:

          snapshot-create domain [xmlfile] {[--redefine [--current]] |
             [--no-metadata] [--halt] [--disk-only] [--reuse-external]
             [--quiesce] [--atomic] [--live]} [--validate]

       Create a snapshot for domain domain with the properties specified in xmlfile.   Optionally, the --validate op-
       tion can be passed to validate the format of the input XML file against an internal RNG schema  (identical  to
       using  the  virt-xml-validate(1)  tool).  Normally, the only properties settable for a domain snapshot are the
       <name> and <description> elements, as well as <disks> if --disk-only is given; the rest of the fields are  ig-
       nored,  and  automatically filled in by libvirt.  If xmlfile is completely omitted, then libvirt will choose a
       value for all fields.  The new snapshot will become current, as listed by snapshot-current.

       If --halt is specified, the domain will be left in an inactive state after the snapshot is created.

       If --disk-only is specified, the snapshot will only include disk content rather than  the  usual  full  system
       snapshot  with  vm  state.   Disk snapshots are captured faster than full system snapshots, but reverting to a
       disk snapshot may require fsck or journal replays, since it is like the disk state at the point when the power
       cord  is abruptly pulled; and mixing --halt and --disk-only loses any data that was not flushed to disk at the
       time.

       If --redefine is specified, then all XML elements produced by snapshot-dumpxml are valid; this can be used  to
       migrate  snapshot hierarchy from one machine to another, to recreate hierarchy for the case of a transient do-
       main that goes away and is later recreated with the same name and UUID, or to make slight alterations  in  the
       snapshot  metadata (such as host-specific aspects of the domain XML embedded in the snapshot).  When this flag
       is supplied, the xmlfile argument is mandatory, and the domain's current snapshot will not be  altered  unless
       the --current flag is also given.

       If  --no-metadata  is  specified, then the snapshot data is created, but any metadata is immediately discarded
       (that is, libvirt does not treat the snapshot as current, and cannot revert to the snapshot unless  --redefine
       is later used to teach libvirt about the metadata again).

       If  --reuse-external is specified, and the snapshot XML requests an external snapshot with a destination of an
       existing file, then the destination must exist and be pre-created with correct format and metadata.  The  file
       is then reused; otherwise, a snapshot is refused to avoid losing contents of the existing files.

       If  --quiesce  is  specified, libvirt will try to use guest agent to freeze and unfreeze domain's mounted file
       systems. However, if domain has no guest  agent,  snapshot  creation  will  fail.   Currently,  this  requires
       --disk-only to be passed as well.

       If  --atomic is specified, libvirt will guarantee that the snapshot either succeeds, or fails with no changes;
       not all hypervisors support this.  If this flag is not specified, then some hypervisors may  fail  after  par-
       tially performing the action, and dumpxml must be used to see whether any partial changes occurred.

       If  --live  is specified, libvirt takes the snapshot while the guest is running. Both disk snapshot and domain
       memory snapshot are taken. This increases the size of the memory image of the external snapshot. This is  cur-
       rently supported only for full system external snapshots.

       Existence  of snapshot metadata will prevent attempts to undefine a persistent domain.  However, for transient
       domains, snapshot metadata is silently lost when the domain quits running (whether by command such as  destroy
       or by internal guest action).

       For  now,  it  is not possible to create snapshots in a domain that has checkpoints, although this restriction
       will be lifted in a future release.

