   snapshot-revert
       Syntax:

          snapshot-revert domain {snapshot | --current} [{--running | --paused}] [--force]

       Revert the given domain to the snapshot specified by snapshot, or to the current snapshot with --current.   Be
       aware  that  this is a destructive action; any changes in the domain since the last snapshot was taken will be
       lost.  Also note that the state of the domain after snapshot-revert is complete will be the state of  the  do-
       main at the time the original snapshot was taken.

       Normally,  reverting to a snapshot leaves the domain in the state it was at the time the snapshot was created,
       except that a disk snapshot with no vm state leaves the domain in  an  inactive  state.   Passing  either  the
       --running or --paused flag will perform additional state changes (such as booting an inactive domain, or paus-
       ing a running domain).  Since transient domains cannot be inactive, it is required to use one of  these  flags
       when reverting to a disk snapshot of a transient domain.

       There  are a number of cases where a snapshot revert involves extra risk, which requires the use of --force to
       proceed:

          o One is the case of a snapshot that lacks full domain information for  reverting  configuration  (such  as
            snapshots  created  prior  to  libvirt  0.9.5); since libvirt cannot prove that the current configuration
            matches what was in use at the time of the snapshot, supplying --force assures libvirt that the  snapshot
            is compatible with the current configuration (and if it is not, the domain will likely fail to run).

          o Another  is  the case of reverting from a running domain to an active state where a new hypervisor has to
            be created rather than reusing the existing hypervisor, because it implies drawbacks such as breaking any
            existing  VNC  or  Spice connections; this condition happens with an active snapshot that uses a provably
            incompatible configuration, as well as with an inactive snapshot that is combined  with  the  --start  or
            --pause flag.

          o Also,  libvirt  will  refuse  to  restore snapshots of inactive QEMU domains while there is managed saved
            state. This is because those snapshots do not contain memory state and will therefore not replace the ex-
            isting  memory state. This ends up switching a disk underneath a running system and will likely cause ex-
            tensive filesystem corruption or crashes due to swap content mismatches when run.

