5 - Duplicate Detection, Ordering and Mutual Exclusion

   5.1. For correct operation, mechanisms may be needed to ensure
   idempotence, order UPDATE requests and provide mutual exclusion.  An
   UPDATE message or response might be delivered zero times, one time,
   or multiple times.  Datagram duplication is of particular interest
   since it covers the case of the so-called "replay attack" where a
   correct request is duplicated maliciously by an intruder.

   5.2. Multiple UPDATE requests or responses in transit might be
   delivered in any order, due to network topology changes or load
   balancing, or to multipath forwarding graphs wherein several slave
   servers all forward to the primary master.  In some cases, it might
   be required that the earlier update not be applied after the later
   update, where "earlier" and "later" are defined by an external time
   base visible to some set of requestors, rather than by the order of
   request receipt at the primary master.

   5.3. A requestor can ensure transaction idempotence by explicitly
   deleting some "marker RR" (rather than deleting the RRset of which it
   is a part) and then adding a new "marker RR" with a different RDATA
   field.  The Prerequisite Section should specify that the original
   "marker RR" must be present in order for this UPDATE message to be
   accepted by the server.

   5.4. If the request is duplicated by a network error, all duplicate
   requests will fail since only the first will find the original
   "marker RR" present and having its known previous value.  The
   decisions of whether to use such a "marker RR" and what RR to use are
   left up to the application programmer, though one obvious choice is
   the zone's SOA RR as described below.

   5.5. Requestors can ensure update ordering by externally
   synchronizing their use of successive values of the "marker RR."
   Mutual exclusion can be addressed as a degenerate case, in that a
   single succession of the "marker RR" is all that is needed.

   5.6. A special case where update ordering and datagram duplication
   intersect is when an RR validly changes to some new value and then
   back to its previous value.  Without a "marker RR" as described
   above, this sequence of updates can leave the zone in an undefined
   state if datagrams are duplicated.

   5.7. To achieve an atomic multitransaction "read-modify-write" cycle,
   a requestor could first retrieve the SOA RR, and build an UPDATE
   message one of whose prerequisites was the old SOA RR.  It would then
   specify updates that would delete this SOA RR and add a new one with
   an incremented SOA SERIAL, along with whatever actual prerequisites



Vixie, et. al.              Standards Track                    [Page 19]

RFC 2136                       DNS Update                     April 1997


   and updates were the object of the transaction.  If the transaction
   succeeds, the requestor knows that the RRs being changed were not
   otherwise altered by any other requestor.

