6 - Forwarding

   When a zone slave forwards an UPDATE message upward toward the zone's
   primary master server, it must allocate a new ID and prepare to enter
   the role of "forwarding server," which is a requestor with respect to
   the forward server.

   6.1. The set of forward servers will be same as the set of servers
   this zone slave would use as the source of AXFR or IXFR data.  So,
   while the original requestor might have used the zone's NS RRset to
   locate its update server, a forwarder always forwards toward its
   designated zone master servers.

   6.2. If the original requestor used TCP, then the TCP connection from
   the requestor is still open and the forwarder must use TCP to forward
   the message.  If the original requestor used UDP, the forwarder may
   use either UDP or TCP to forward the message, at the whim of the
   implementor.

   6.3. It is reasonable for forward servers to be forwarders
   themselves, if the AXFR dependency graph being followed is a deep one
   involving firewalls and multiple connectivity realms.  In most cases
   the AXFR dependency graph will be shallow and the forward server will
   be the primary master server.

   6.4. The forwarder will not respond to its requestor until it
   receives a response from its forward server.  UPDATE transactions
   involving forwarders are therefore time synchronized with respect to
   the original requestor and the primary master server.

   6.5. When there are multiple possible sources of AXFR data and
   therefore multiple possible forward servers, a forwarder will use the
   same fallback strategy with respect to connectivity or timeout errors
   that it would use when performing an AXFR.  This is implementation
   dependent.

   6.6. When a forwarder receives a response from a forward server, it
   copies this response into a new response message, assigns its
   requestor's ID to that message, and sends the response back to the
   requestor.







Vixie, et. al.              Standards Track                    [Page 20]

RFC 2136                       DNS Update                     April 1997


