7 - Design, Implementation, Operation, and Protocol Notes

   Some of the principles which guided the design of this UPDATE
   specification are as follows.  Note that these are not part of the
   formal specification and any disagreement between this section and
   any other section of this document should be resolved in favour of
   the other section.

   7.1. Using metavalues for CLASS is possible only because all RRs in
   the packet are assumed to be in the same zone, and CLASS is an
   attribute of a zone rather than of an RRset.  (It is for this reason
   that the Zone Section is not optional.)

   7.2. Since there are no data-present or data-absent errors possible
   from processing the Update Section, any necessary data-present and
   data- absent dependencies should be specified in the Prerequisite
   Section.

   7.3. The Additional Data Section can be used to supply a server with
   out of zone glue that will be needed in referrals.  For example, if
   adding a new NS RR to HOME.VIX.COM specifying a nameserver called
   NS.AU.OZ, the A RR for NS.AU.OZ can be included in the Additional
   Data Section.  Servers can use this information or ignore it, at the
   discretion of the implementor.  We discourage caching this
   information for use in subsequent DNS responses.

   7.4. The Additional Data Section might be used if some of the RRs
   later needed for Secure DNS Update are not actually zone updates, but
   rather ancillary keys or signatures not intended to be stored in the
   zone (as an update would be), yet necessary for validating the update
   operation.

   7.5. It is expected that in the absence of Secure DNS Update, a
   server will only accept updates if they come from a source address
   that has been statically configured in the server's description of a
   primary master zone.  DHCP servers would be likely candidates for
   inclusion in this statically configured list.

   7.6. It is not possible to create a zone using this protocol, since
   there is no provision for a slave server to be told who its master
   servers are.  It is expected that this protocol will be extended in
   the future to cover this case.  Therefore, at this time, the addition
   of SOA RRs is unsupported.  For similar reasons, deletion of SOA RRs
   is also unsupported.







Vixie, et. al.              Standards Track                    [Page 21]

RFC 2136                       DNS Update                     April 1997


   7.7. The prerequisite for specifying that a name own at least one RR
   differs semantically from QUERY, in that QUERY would return
   <NOERROR,ANCOUNT=0> rather than NXDOMAIN if queried for an RRset at
   this name, while UPDATE's prerequisite condition [Section 2.4.4]
   would NOT be satisfied.

   7.8. It is possible for a UDP response to be lost in transit and for
   a request to be retried due to a timeout condition.  In this case an
   UPDATE that was successful the first time it was received by the
   primary master might ultimately appear to have failed when the
   response to a duplicate request is finally received by the requestor.
   (This is because the original prerequisites may no longer be
   satisfied after the update has been applied.)  For this reason,
   requestors who require an accurate response code must use TCP.

   7.9. Because a requestor who requires an accurate response code will
   initiate their UPDATE transaction using TCP, a forwarder who receives
   a request via TCP must forward it using TCP.

   7.10. Deferral of SOA SERIAL autoincrements is made possible so that
   serial numbers can be conserved and wraparound at 2**32 can be made
   an infrequent occurance.  Visible (to DNS clients) SOA SERIALs need
   to differ if the zone differs.  Note that the Authority Section SOA
   in a QUERY response is a form of visibility, for the purposes of this
   prerequisite.

   7.11. A zone's SOA SERIAL should never be set to zero (0) due to
   interoperability problems with some older but widely installed
   implementations of DNS.  When incrementing an SOA SERIAL, if the
   result of the increment is zero (0) (as will be true when wrapping
   around 2**32), it is necessary to increment it again or set it to one
   (1).  See [RFC1982] for more detail on this subject.

   7.12. Due to the TTL minimalization necessary when caching an RRset,
   it is recommended that all TTLs in an RRset be set to the same value.
   While the DNS Message Format permits variant TTLs to exist in the
   same RRset, and this variance can exist inside a zone, such variance
   will have counterintuitive results and its use is discouraged.

   7.13. Zone cut management presents some obscure corner cases to the
   add and delete operations in the Update Section.  It is possible to
   delete an NS RR as long as it is not the last NS RR at the root of a
   zone.  If deleting all RRs from a name, SOA and NS RRs at the root of
   a zone are unaffected.  If deleting RRsets, it is not possible to
   delete either SOA or NS RRsets at the top of a zone.  An attempt to
   add an SOA will be treated as a replace operation if an SOA already
   exists, or as a no-op if the SOA would be new.




Vixie, et. al.              Standards Track                    [Page 22]

RFC 2136                       DNS Update                     April 1997


   7.14. No semantic checking is required in the primary master server
   when adding new RRs.  Therefore a requestor can cause CNAME or NS or
   any other kind of RR to be added even if their target name does not
   exist or does not have the proper RRsets to make the original RR
   useful.  Primary master servers that DO implement this kind of
   checking should take great care to avoid out-of-zone dependencies
   (whose veracity cannot be authoritatively checked) and should
   implement all such checking during the prescan phase.

   7.15. Nonterminal or wildcard CNAMEs are not well specified by
   [RFC1035] and their use will probably lead to unpredictable results.
   Their use is discouraged.

   7.16. Empty nonterminals (nodes with children but no RRs of their
   own) will cause <NOERROR,ANCOUNT=0> responses to be sent in response
   to a query of any type for that name.  There is no provision for
   empty terminal nodes -- so if all RRs of a terminal node are deleted,
   the name is no longer in use, and queries of any type for that name
   will result in an NXDOMAIN response.

   7.17. In a deep AXFR dependency graph, it has not historically been
   an error for slaves to depend mutually upon each other.  This
   configuration has been used to enable a zone to flow from the primary
   master to all slaves even though not all slaves have continuous
   connectivity to the primary master.  UPDATE's use of the AXFR
   dependency graph for forwarding prohibits this kind of dependency
   loop, since UPDATE forwarding has no loop detection analagous to the
   SOA SERIAL pretest used by AXFR.

   7.18. Previously existing names which are occluded by a new zone cut
   are still considered part of the parent zone, for the purposes of
   zone transfers, even though queries for such names will be referred
   to the new subzone's servers.  If a zone cut is removed, all parent
   zone names that were occluded by it will again become visible to
   queries.  (This is a clarification of [RFC1034].)

   7.19. If a server is authoritative for both a zone and its child,
   then queries for names at the zone cut between them will be answered
   authoritatively using only data from the child zone.  (This is a
   clarification of [RFC1034].)











Vixie, et. al.              Standards Track                    [Page 23]

RFC 2136                       DNS Update                     April 1997


   7.20. Update ordering using the SOA RR is problematic since there is
   no way to know which of a zone's NS RRs represents the primary
   master, and the zone slaves can be out of date if their SOA.REFRESH
   timers have not elapsed since the last time the zone was changed on
   the primary master.  We recommend that a zone needing ordered updates
   use only servers which implement NOTIFY (see [RFC1996]) and IXFR (see
   [RFC1995]), and that a client receiving a prerequisite error while
   attempting an ordered update simply retry after a random delay period
   to allow the zone to settle.

