1.  Introduction

   "Virtual eXtensible Local Area Network (VXLAN)" [RFC7348] provides an
   encapsulation scheme that allows the building of an overlay network
   by decoupling the address space of the attached virtual hosts from
   that of the network.

   One use of VXLAN is in data centers interconnecting virtual machines
   (VMs) of a tenant.  VXLAN addresses the requirements of the Layer 2
   and Layer 3 data-center network infrastructure in the presence of VMs
   in a multi-tenant environment by providing a Layer 2 overlay scheme
   on a Layer 3 network [RFC7348].  Another use is as an encapsulation
   for Ethernet VPN [RFC8365].

   This document is written assuming the use of VXLAN for virtualized
   hosts and refers to VMs and VXLAN Tunnel End Points (VTEPs) in
   hypervisors.  However, the concepts are equally applicable to non-
   virtualized hosts attached to VTEPs in switches.

   In the absence of a router in the overlay, a VM can communicate with
   another VM only if they are on the same VXLAN segment.  VMs are
   unaware of VXLAN tunnels, because a VXLAN tunnel is terminated on a
   VTEP.  VTEPs are responsible for encapsulating and decapsulating
   frames exchanged among VMs.

   The ability to monitor path continuity -- i.e., perform proactive
   continuity check (CC) for point-to-point (p2p) VXLAN tunnels -- is
   important.  The asynchronous mode of BFD, as defined in [RFC5880], is
   used to monitor a p2p VXLAN tunnel.

   In the case where a Multicast Service Node (MSN) (as described in
   Section 3.3 of [RFC8293]) participates in VXLAN, the mechanisms
   described in this document apply and can, therefore, be used to test
   the continuity of the path between the source Network Virtualization
   Endpoint (NVE) and the MSN.

   This document describes the use of the Bidirectional Forwarding
   Detection (BFD) protocol to enable monitoring continuity of the path
   between VXLAN VTEPs that are performing as VNEs, and/or between the
   source NVE and a replicator MSN using a Management VXLAN Network
   Identifier (VNI) (Section 4).  All other uses of the specification to
   test toward other VXLAN endpoints are out of scope.

