3. INTERNET LAYER PROTOCOLS

   3.1 INTRODUCTION

      The Robustness Principle: "Be liberal in what you accept, and
      conservative in what you send" is particularly important in the
      Internet layer, where one misbehaving host can deny Internet
      service to many other hosts.

      The protocol standards used in the Internet layer are:

      o    RFC-791 [IP:1] defines the IP protocol and gives an
           introduction to the architecture of the Internet.

      o    RFC-792 [IP:2] defines ICMP, which provides routing,
           diagnostic and error functionality for IP.  Although ICMP
           messages are encapsulated within IP datagrams, ICMP
           processing is considered to be (and is typically implemented
           as) part of the IP layer.  See Section 3.2.2.

      o    RFC-950 [IP:3] defines the mandatory subnet extension to the
           addressing architecture.

      o    RFC-1112 [IP:4] defines the Internet Group Management
           Protocol IGMP, as part of a recommended extension to hosts
           and to the host-gateway interface to support Internet-wide
           multicasting at the IP level.  See Section 3.2.3.

           The target of an IP multicast may be an arbitrary group of
           Internet hosts.  IP multicasting is designed as a natural
           extension of the link-layer multicasting facilities of some
           networks, and it provides a standard means for local access
           to such link-layer multicasting facilities.

      Other important references are listed in Section 5 of this
      document.

      The Internet layer of host software MUST implement both IP and
      ICMP.  See Section 3.3.7 for the requirements on support of IGMP.

      The host IP layer has two basic functions:  (1) choose the "next
      hop" gateway or host for outgoing IP datagrams and (2) reassemble
      incoming IP datagrams.  The IP layer may also (3) implement
      intentional fragmentation of outgoing datagrams.  Finally, the IP
      layer must (4) provide diagnostic and error functionality.  We
      expect that IP layer functions may increase somewhat in the
      future, as further Internet control and management facilities are
      developed.



Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 27]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


      For normal datagrams, the processing is straightforward.  For
      incoming datagrams, the IP layer:

      (1)  verifies that the datagram is correctly formatted;

      (2)  verifies that it is destined to the local host;

      (3)  processes options;

      (4)  reassembles the datagram if necessary; and

      (5)  passes the encapsulated message to the appropriate
           transport-layer protocol module.

      For outgoing datagrams, the IP layer:

      (1)  sets any fields not set by the transport layer;

      (2)  selects the correct first hop on the connected network (a
           process called "routing");

      (3)  fragments the datagram if necessary and if intentional
           fragmentation is implemented (see Section 3.3.3); and

      (4)  passes the packet(s) to the appropriate link-layer driver.


      A host is said to be multihomed if it has multiple IP addresses.
      Multihoming introduces considerable confusion and complexity into
      the protocol suite, and it is an area in which the Internet
      architecture falls seriously short of solving all problems.  There
      are two distinct problem areas in multihoming:

      (1)  Local multihoming --  the host itself is multihomed; or

      (2)  Remote multihoming -- the local host needs to communicate
           with a remote multihomed host.

      At present, remote multihoming MUST be handled at the application
      layer, as discussed in the companion RFC [INTRO:1].  A host MAY
      support local multihoming, which is discussed in this document,
      and in particular in Section 3.3.4.

      Any host that forwards datagrams generated by another host is
      acting as a gateway and MUST also meet the specifications laid out
      in the gateway requirements RFC [INTRO:2].  An Internet host that
      includes embedded gateway code MUST have a configuration switch to
      disable the gateway function, and this switch MUST default to the



Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 28]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


      non-gateway mode.  In this mode, a datagram arriving through one
      interface will not be forwarded to another host or gateway (unless
      it is source-routed), regardless of whether the host is single-
      homed or multihomed.  The host software MUST NOT automatically
      move into gateway mode if the host has more than one interface, as
      the operator of the machine may neither want to provide that
      service nor be competent to do so.

      In the following, the action specified in certain cases is to
      "silently discard" a received datagram.  This means that the
      datagram will be discarded without further processing and that the
      host will not send any ICMP error message (see Section 3.2.2) as a
      result.  However, for diagnosis of problems a host SHOULD provide
      the capability of logging the error (see Section 1.2.3), including
      the contents of the silently-discarded datagram, and SHOULD record
      the event in a statistics counter.

      DISCUSSION:
           Silent discard of erroneous datagrams is generally intended
           to prevent "broadcast storms".

   3.2  PROTOCOL WALK-THROUGH

      3.2.1 Internet Protocol -- IP

         3.2.1.1  Version Number: RFC-791 Section 3.1

            A datagram whose version number is not 4 MUST be silently
            discarded.

         3.2.1.2  Checksum: RFC-791 Section 3.1

            A host MUST verify the IP header checksum on every received
            datagram and silently discard every datagram that has a bad
            checksum.

         3.2.1.3  Addressing: RFC-791 Section 3.2

            There are now five classes of IP addresses: Class A through
            Class E.  Class D addresses are used for IP multicasting
            [IP:4], while Class E addresses are reserved for
            experimental use.

            A multicast (Class D) address is a 28-bit logical address
            that stands for a group of hosts, and may be either
            permanent or transient.  Permanent multicast addresses are
            allocated by the Internet Assigned Number Authority
            [INTRO:6], while transient addresses may be allocated



Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 29]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


            dynamically to transient groups.  Group membership is
            determined dynamically using IGMP [IP:4].

            We now summarize the important special cases for Class A, B,
            and C IP addresses, using the following notation for an IP
            address:

                { <Network-number>, <Host-number> }

            or
                { <Network-number>, <Subnet-number>, <Host-number> }

            and the notation "-1" for a field that contains all 1 bits.
            This notation is not intended to imply that the 1-bits in an
            address mask need be contiguous.

            (a)  { 0, 0 }

                 This host on this network.  MUST NOT be sent, except as
                 a source address as part of an initialization procedure
                 by which the host learns its own IP address.

                 See also Section 3.3.6 for a non-standard use of {0,0}.

            (b)  { 0, <Host-number> }

                 Specified host on this network.  It MUST NOT be sent,
                 except as a source address as part of an initialization
                 procedure by which the host learns its full IP address.

            (c)  { -1, -1 }

                 Limited broadcast.  It MUST NOT be used as a source
                 address.

                 A datagram with this destination address will be
                 received by every host on the connected physical
                 network but will not be forwarded outside that network.

            (d)  { <Network-number>, -1 }

                 Directed broadcast to the specified network.  It MUST
                 NOT be used as a source address.

            (e)  { <Network-number>, <Subnet-number>, -1 }

                 Directed broadcast to the specified subnet.  It MUST
                 NOT be used as a source address.



Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 30]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


            (f)  { <Network-number>, -1, -1 }

                 Directed broadcast to all subnets of the specified
                 subnetted network.  It MUST NOT be used as a source
                 address.

            (g)  { 127, <any> }

                 Internal host loopback address.  Addresses of this form
                 MUST NOT appear outside a host.

            The <Network-number> is administratively assigned so that
            its value will be unique in the entire world.

            IP addresses are not permitted to have the value 0 or -1 for
            any of the <Host-number>, <Network-number>, or <Subnet-
            number> fields (except in the special cases listed above).
            This implies that each of these fields will be at least two
            bits long.

            For further discussion of broadcast addresses, see Section
            3.3.6.

            A host MUST support the subnet extensions to IP [IP:3].  As
            a result, there will be an address mask of the form:
            {-1, -1, 0} associated with each of the host's local IP
            addresses; see Sections 3.2.2.9 and 3.3.1.1.

            When a host sends any datagram, the IP source address MUST
            be one of its own IP addresses (but not a broadcast or
            multicast address).

            A host MUST silently discard an incoming datagram that is
            not destined for the host.  An incoming datagram is destined
            for the host if the datagram's destination address field is:

            (1)  (one of) the host's IP address(es); or

            (2)  an IP broadcast address valid for the connected
                 network; or

            (3)  the address for a multicast group of which the host is
                 a member on the incoming physical interface.

            For most purposes, a datagram addressed to a broadcast or
            multicast destination is processed as if it had been
            addressed to one of the host's IP addresses; we use the term
            "specific-destination address" for the equivalent local IP



Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 31]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


            address of the host.  The specific-destination address is
            defined to be the destination address in the IP header
            unless the header contains a broadcast or multicast address,
            in which case the specific-destination is an IP address
            assigned to the physical interface on which the datagram
            arrived.

            A host MUST silently discard an incoming datagram containing
            an IP source address that is invalid by the rules of this
            section.  This validation could be done in either the IP
            layer or by each protocol in the transport layer.

            DISCUSSION:
                 A mis-addressed datagram might be caused by a link-
                 layer broadcast of a unicast datagram or by a gateway
                 or host that is confused or mis-configured.

                 An architectural goal for Internet hosts was to allow
                 IP addresses to be featureless 32-bit numbers, avoiding
                 algorithms that required a knowledge of the IP address
                 format.  Otherwise, any future change in the format or
                 interpretation of IP addresses will require host
                 software changes.  However, validation of broadcast and
                 multicast addresses violates this goal; a few other
                 violations are described elsewhere in this document.

                 Implementers should be aware that applications
                 depending upon the all-subnets directed broadcast
                 address (f) may be unusable on some networks.  All-
                 subnets broadcast is not widely implemented in vendor
                 gateways at present, and even when it is implemented, a
                 particular network administration may disable it in the
                 gateway configuration.

         3.2.1.4  Fragmentation and Reassembly: RFC-791 Section 3.2

            The Internet model requires that every host support
            reassembly.  See Sections 3.3.2 and 3.3.3 for the
            requirements on fragmentation and reassembly.

         3.2.1.5  Identification: RFC-791 Section 3.2

            When sending an identical copy of an earlier datagram, a
            host MAY optionally retain the same Identification field in
            the copy.






Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 32]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


            DISCUSSION:
                 Some Internet protocol experts have maintained that
                 when a host sends an identical copy of an earlier
                 datagram, the new copy should contain the same
                 Identification value as the original.  There are two
                 suggested advantages:  (1) if the datagrams are
                 fragmented and some of the fragments are lost, the
                 receiver may be able to reconstruct a complete datagram
                 from fragments of the original and the copies; (2) a
                 congested gateway might use the IP Identification field
                 (and Fragment Offset) to discard duplicate datagrams
                 from the queue.

                 However, the observed patterns of datagram loss in the
                 Internet do not favor the probability of retransmitted
                 fragments filling reassembly gaps, while other
                 mechanisms (e.g., TCP repacketizing upon
                 retransmission) tend to prevent retransmission of an
                 identical datagram [IP:9].  Therefore, we believe that
                 retransmitting the same Identification field is not
                 useful.  Also, a connectionless transport protocol like
                 UDP would require the cooperation of the application
                 programs to retain the same Identification value in
                 identical datagrams.

         3.2.1.6  Type-of-Service: RFC-791 Section 3.2

            The "Type-of-Service" byte in the IP header is divided into
            two sections:  the Precedence field (high-order 3 bits), and
            a field that is customarily called "Type-of-Service" or
            "TOS" (low-order 5 bits).  In this document, all references
            to "TOS" or the "TOS field" refer to the low-order 5 bits
            only.

            The Precedence field is intended for Department of Defense
            applications of the Internet protocols.  The use of non-zero
            values in this field is outside the scope of this document
            and the IP standard specification.  Vendors should consult
            the Defense Communication Agency (DCA) for guidance on the
            IP Precedence field and its implications for other protocol
            layers.  However, vendors should note that the use of
            precedence will most likely require that its value be passed
            between protocol layers in just the same way as the TOS
            field is passed.

            The IP layer MUST provide a means for the transport layer to
            set the TOS field of every datagram that is sent; the
            default is all zero bits.  The IP layer SHOULD pass received



Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 33]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


            TOS values up to the transport layer.

            The particular link-layer mappings of TOS contained in RFC-
            795 SHOULD NOT be implemented.

            DISCUSSION:
                 While the TOS field has been little used in the past,
                 it is expected to play an increasing role in the near
                 future.  The TOS field is expected to be used to
                 control two aspects of gateway operations: routing and
                 queueing algorithms.  See Section 2 of [INTRO:1] for
                 the requirements on application programs to specify TOS
                 values.

                 The TOS field may also be mapped into link-layer
                 service selectors.  This has been applied to provide
                 effective sharing of serial lines by different classes
                 of TCP traffic, for example.  However, the mappings
                 suggested in RFC-795 for networks that were included in
                 the Internet as of 1981 are now obsolete.

         3.2.1.7  Time-to-Live: RFC-791 Section 3.2

            A host MUST NOT send a datagram with a Time-to-Live (TTL)
            value of zero.

            A host MUST NOT discard a datagram just because it was
            received with TTL less than 2.

            The IP layer MUST provide a means for the transport layer to
            set the TTL field of every datagram that is sent.  When a
            fixed TTL value is used, it MUST be configurable.  The
            current suggested value will be published in the "Assigned
            Numbers" RFC.

            DISCUSSION:
                 The TTL field has two functions: limit the lifetime of
                 TCP segments (see RFC-793 [TCP:1], p. 28), and
                 terminate Internet routing loops.  Although TTL is a
                 time in seconds, it also has some attributes of a hop-
                 count, since each gateway is required to reduce the TTL
                 field by at least one.

                 The intent is that TTL expiration will cause a datagram
                 to be discarded by a gateway but not by the destination
                 host; however, hosts that act as gateways by forwarding
                 datagrams must follow the gateway rules for TTL.




Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 34]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


                 A higher-layer protocol may want to set the TTL in
                 order to implement an "expanding scope" search for some
                 Internet resource.  This is used by some diagnostic
                 tools, and is expected to be useful for locating the
                 "nearest" server of a given class using IP
                 multicasting, for example.  A particular transport
                 protocol may also want to specify its own TTL bound on
                 maximum datagram lifetime.

                 A fixed value must be at least big enough for the
                 Internet "diameter," i.e., the longest possible path.
                 A reasonable value is about twice the diameter, to
                 allow for continued Internet growth.

         3.2.1.8  Options: RFC-791 Section 3.2

            There MUST be a means for the transport layer to specify IP
            options to be included in transmitted IP datagrams (see
            Section 3.4).

            All IP options (except NOP or END-OF-LIST) received in
            datagrams MUST be passed to the transport layer (or to ICMP
            processing when the datagram is an ICMP message).  The IP
            and transport layer MUST each interpret those IP options
            that they understand and silently ignore the others.

            Later sections of this document discuss specific IP option
            support required by each of ICMP, TCP, and UDP.

            DISCUSSION:
                 Passing all received IP options to the transport layer
                 is a deliberate "violation of strict layering" that is
                 designed to ease the introduction of new transport-
                 relevant IP options in the future.  Each layer must
                 pick out any options that are relevant to its own
                 processing and ignore the rest.  For this purpose,
                 every IP option except NOP and END-OF-LIST will include
                 a specification of its own length.

                 This document does not define the order in which a
                 receiver must process multiple options in the same IP
                 header.  Hosts sending multiple options must be aware
                 that this introduces an ambiguity in the meaning of
                 certain options when combined with a source-route
                 option.

            IMPLEMENTATION:
                 The IP layer must not crash as the result of an option



Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 35]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


                 length that is outside the possible range.  For
                 example, erroneous option lengths have been observed to
                 put some IP implementations into infinite loops.

            Here are the requirements for specific IP options:


            (a)  Security Option

                 Some environments require the Security option in every
                 datagram; such a requirement is outside the scope of
                 this document and the IP standard specification.  Note,
                 however, that the security options described in RFC-791
                 and RFC-1038 are obsolete.  For DoD applications,
                 vendors should consult [IP:8] for guidance.


            (b)  Stream Identifier Option

                 This option is obsolete; it SHOULD NOT be sent, and it
                 MUST be silently ignored if received.


            (c)  Source Route Options

                 A host MUST support originating a source route and MUST
                 be able to act as the final destination of a source
                 route.

                 If host receives a datagram containing a completed
                 source route (i.e., the pointer points beyond the last
                 field), the datagram has reached its final destination;
                 the option as received (the recorded route) MUST be
                 passed up to the transport layer (or to ICMP message
                 processing).  This recorded route will be reversed and
                 used to form a return source route for reply datagrams
                 (see discussion of IP Options in Section 4).  When a
                 return source route is built, it MUST be correctly
                 formed even if the recorded route included the source
                 host (see case (B) in the discussion below).

                 An IP header containing more than one Source Route
                 option MUST NOT be sent; the effect on routing of
                 multiple Source Route options is implementation-
                 specific.

                 Section 3.3.5 presents the rules for a host acting as
                 an intermediate hop in a source route, i.e., forwarding



Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 36]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


                 a source-routed datagram.

                 DISCUSSION:
                      If a source-routed datagram is fragmented, each
                      fragment will contain a copy of the source route.
                      Since the processing of IP options (including a
                      source route) must precede reassembly, the
                      original datagram will not be reassembled until
                      the final destination is reached.

                      Suppose a source routed datagram is to be routed
                      from host S to host D via gateways G1, G2, ... Gn.
                      There was an ambiguity in the specification over
                      whether the source route option in a datagram sent
                      out by S should be (A) or (B):

                          (A):  {>>G2, G3, ... Gn, D}     <--- CORRECT

                          (B):  {S, >>G2, G3, ... Gn, D}  <---- WRONG

                      (where >> represents the pointer).  If (A) is
                      sent, the datagram received at D will contain the
                      option: {G1, G2, ... Gn >>}, with S and D as the
                      IP source and destination addresses.  If (B) were
                      sent, the datagram received at D would again
                      contain S and D as the same IP source and
                      destination addresses, but the option would be:
                      {S, G1, ...Gn >>}; i.e., the originating host
                      would be the first hop in the route.


            (d)  Record Route Option

                 Implementation of originating and processing the Record
                 Route option is OPTIONAL.


            (e)  Timestamp Option

                 Implementation of originating and processing the
                 Timestamp option is OPTIONAL.  If it is implemented,
                 the following rules apply:

                 o    The originating host MUST record a timestamp in a
                      Timestamp option whose Internet address fields are
                      not pre-specified or whose first pre-specified
                      address is the host's interface address.




Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 37]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


                 o    The destination host MUST (if possible) add the
                      current timestamp to a Timestamp option before
                      passing the option to the transport layer or to
                      ICMP for processing.

                 o    A timestamp value MUST follow the rules given in
                      Section 3.2.2.8 for the ICMP Timestamp message.


      3.2.2 Internet Control Message Protocol -- ICMP

         ICMP messages are grouped into two classes.

         *
              ICMP error messages:

               Destination Unreachable   (see Section 3.2.2.1)
               Redirect                  (see Section 3.2.2.2)
               Source Quench             (see Section 3.2.2.3)
               Time Exceeded             (see Section 3.2.2.4)
               Parameter Problem         (see Section 3.2.2.5)


         *
              ICMP query messages:

                Echo                     (see Section 3.2.2.6)
                Information              (see Section 3.2.2.7)
                Timestamp                (see Section 3.2.2.8)
                Address Mask             (see Section 3.2.2.9)


         If an ICMP message of unknown type is received, it MUST be
         silently discarded.

         Every ICMP error message includes the Internet header and at
         least the first 8 data octets of the datagram that triggered
         the error; more than 8 octets MAY be sent; this header and data
         MUST be unchanged from the received datagram.

         In those cases where the Internet layer is required to pass an
         ICMP error message to the transport layer, the IP protocol
         number MUST be extracted from the original header and used to
         select the appropriate transport protocol entity to handle the
         error.

         An ICMP error message SHOULD be sent with normal (i.e., zero)
         TOS bits.



Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 38]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


         An ICMP error message MUST NOT be sent as the result of
         receiving:

         *    an ICMP error message, or

         *    a datagram destined to an IP broadcast or IP multicast
              address, or

         *    a datagram sent as a link-layer broadcast, or

         *    a non-initial fragment, or

         *    a datagram whose source address does not define a single
              host -- e.g., a zero address, a loopback address, a
              broadcast address, a multicast address, or a Class E
              address.

         NOTE: THESE RESTRICTIONS TAKE PRECEDENCE OVER ANY REQUIREMENT
         ELSEWHERE IN THIS DOCUMENT FOR SENDING ICMP ERROR MESSAGES.

         DISCUSSION:
              These rules will prevent the "broadcast storms" that have
              resulted from hosts returning ICMP error messages in
              response to broadcast datagrams.  For example, a broadcast
              UDP segment to a non-existent port could trigger a flood
              of ICMP Destination Unreachable datagrams from all
              machines that do not have a client for that destination
              port.  On a large Ethernet, the resulting collisions can
              render the network useless for a second or more.

              Every datagram that is broadcast on the connected network
              should have a valid IP broadcast address as its IP
              destination (see Section 3.3.6).  However, some hosts
              violate this rule.  To be certain to detect broadcast
              datagrams, therefore, hosts are required to check for a
              link-layer broadcast as well as an IP-layer broadcast
              address.

         IMPLEMENTATION:
              This requires that the link layer inform the IP layer when
              a link-layer broadcast datagram has been received; see
              Section 2.4.

         3.2.2.1  Destination Unreachable: RFC-792

            The following additional codes are hereby defined:

                    6 = destination network unknown



Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 39]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


                    7 = destination host unknown

                    8 = source host isolated

                    9 = communication with destination network
                            administratively prohibited

                   10 = communication with destination host
                            administratively prohibited

                   11 = network unreachable for type of service

                   12 = host unreachable for type of service

            A host SHOULD generate Destination Unreachable messages with
            code:

            2    (Protocol Unreachable), when the designated transport
                 protocol is not supported; or

            3    (Port Unreachable), when the designated transport
                 protocol (e.g., UDP) is unable to demultiplex the
                 datagram but has no protocol mechanism to inform the
                 sender.

            A Destination Unreachable message that is received MUST be
            reported to the transport layer.  The transport layer SHOULD
            use the information appropriately; for example, see Sections
            4.1.3.3, 4.2.3.9, and 4.2.4 below.  A transport protocol
            that has its own mechanism for notifying the sender that a
            port is unreachable (e.g., TCP, which sends RST segments)
            MUST nevertheless accept an ICMP Port Unreachable for the
            same purpose.

            A Destination Unreachable message that is received with code
            0 (Net), 1 (Host), or 5 (Bad Source Route) may result from a
            routing transient and MUST therefore be interpreted as only
            a hint, not proof, that the specified destination is
            unreachable [IP:11].  For example, it MUST NOT be used as
            proof of a dead gateway (see Section 3.3.1).

         3.2.2.2  Redirect: RFC-792

            A host SHOULD NOT send an ICMP Redirect message; Redirects
            are to be sent only by gateways.

            A host receiving a Redirect message MUST update its routing
            information accordingly.  Every host MUST be prepared to



Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 40]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


            accept both Host and Network Redirects and to process them
            as described in Section 3.3.1.2 below.

            A Redirect message SHOULD be silently discarded if the new
            gateway address it specifies is not on the same connected
            (sub-) net through which the Redirect arrived [INTRO:2,
            Appendix A], or if the source of the Redirect is not the
            current first-hop gateway for the specified destination (see
            Section 3.3.1).

         3.2.2.3  Source Quench: RFC-792

            A host MAY send a Source Quench message if it is
            approaching, or has reached, the point at which it is forced
            to discard incoming datagrams due to a shortage of
            reassembly buffers or other resources.  See Section 2.2.3 of
            [INTRO:2] for suggestions on when to send Source Quench.

            If a Source Quench message is received, the IP layer MUST
            report it to the transport layer (or ICMP processing). In
            general, the transport or application layer SHOULD implement
            a mechanism to respond to Source Quench for any protocol
            that can send a sequence of datagrams to the same
            destination and which can reasonably be expected to maintain
            enough state information to make this feasible.  See Section
            4 for the handling of Source Quench by TCP and UDP.

            DISCUSSION:
                 A Source Quench may be generated by the target host or
                 by some gateway in the path of a datagram.  The host
                 receiving a Source Quench should throttle itself back
                 for a period of time, then gradually increase the
                 transmission rate again.  The mechanism to respond to
                 Source Quench may be in the transport layer (for
                 connection-oriented protocols like TCP) or in the
                 application layer (for protocols that are built on top
                 of UDP).

                 A mechanism has been proposed [IP:14] to make the IP
                 layer respond directly to Source Quench by controlling
                 the rate at which datagrams are sent, however, this
                 proposal is currently experimental and not currently
                 recommended.

         3.2.2.4  Time Exceeded: RFC-792

            An incoming Time Exceeded message MUST be passed to the
            transport layer.



Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 41]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


            DISCUSSION:
                 A gateway will send a Time Exceeded Code 0 (In Transit)
                 message when it discards a datagram due to an expired
                 TTL field.  This indicates either a gateway routing
                 loop or too small an initial TTL value.

                 A host may receive a Time Exceeded Code 1 (Reassembly
                 Timeout) message from a destination host that has timed
                 out and discarded an incomplete datagram; see Section
                 3.3.2 below.  In the future, receipt of this message
                 might be part of some "MTU discovery" procedure, to
                 discover the maximum datagram size that can be sent on
                 the path without fragmentation.

         3.2.2.5  Parameter Problem: RFC-792

            A host SHOULD generate Parameter Problem messages.  An
            incoming Parameter Problem message MUST be passed to the
            transport layer, and it MAY be reported to the user.

            DISCUSSION:
                 The ICMP Parameter Problem message is sent to the
                 source host for any problem not specifically covered by
                 another ICMP message.  Receipt of a Parameter Problem
                 message generally indicates some local or remote
                 implementation error.

            A new variant on the Parameter Problem message is hereby
            defined:
              Code 1 = required option is missing.

            DISCUSSION:
                 This variant is currently in use in the military
                 community for a missing security option.

         3.2.2.6  Echo Request/Reply: RFC-792

            Every host MUST implement an ICMP Echo server function that
            receives Echo Requests and sends corresponding Echo Replies.
            A host SHOULD also implement an application-layer interface
            for sending an Echo Request and receiving an Echo Reply, for
            diagnostic purposes.

            An ICMP Echo Request destined to an IP broadcast or IP
            multicast address MAY be silently discarded.






Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 42]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


            DISCUSSION:
                 This neutral provision results from a passionate debate
                 between those who feel that ICMP Echo to a broadcast
                 address provides a valuable diagnostic capability and
                 those who feel that misuse of this feature can too
                 easily create packet storms.

            The IP source address in an ICMP Echo Reply MUST be the same
            as the specific-destination address (defined in Section
            3.2.1.3) of the corresponding ICMP Echo Request message.

            Data received in an ICMP Echo Request MUST be entirely
            included in the resulting Echo Reply.  However, if sending
            the Echo Reply requires intentional fragmentation that is
            not implemented, the datagram MUST be truncated to maximum
            transmission size (see Section 3.3.3) and sent.

            Echo Reply messages MUST be passed to the ICMP user
            interface, unless the corresponding Echo Request originated
            in the IP layer.

            If a Record Route and/or Time Stamp option is received in an
            ICMP Echo Request, this option (these options) SHOULD be
            updated to include the current host and included in the IP
            header of the Echo Reply message, without "truncation".
            Thus, the recorded route will be for the entire round trip.

            If a Source Route option is received in an ICMP Echo
            Request, the return route MUST be reversed and used as a
            Source Route option for the Echo Reply message.

         3.2.2.7  Information Request/Reply: RFC-792

            A host SHOULD NOT implement these messages.

            DISCUSSION:
                 The Information Request/Reply pair was intended to
                 support self-configuring systems such as diskless
                 workstations, to allow them to discover their IP
                 network numbers at boot time.  However, the RARP and
                 BOOTP protocols provide better mechanisms for a host to
                 discover its own IP address.

         3.2.2.8  Timestamp and Timestamp Reply: RFC-792

            A host MAY implement Timestamp and Timestamp Reply.  If they
            are implemented, the following rules MUST be followed.




Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 43]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


            o    The ICMP Timestamp server function returns a Timestamp
                 Reply to every Timestamp message that is received.  If
                 this function is implemented, it SHOULD be designed for
                 minimum variability in delay (e.g., implemented in the
                 kernel to avoid delay in scheduling a user process).

            The following cases for Timestamp are to be handled
            according to the corresponding rules for ICMP Echo:

            o    An ICMP Timestamp Request message to an IP broadcast or
                 IP multicast address MAY be silently discarded.

            o    The IP source address in an ICMP Timestamp Reply MUST
                 be the same as the specific-destination address of the
                 corresponding Timestamp Request message.

            o    If a Source-route option is received in an ICMP Echo
                 Request, the return route MUST be reversed and used as
                 a Source Route option for the Timestamp Reply message.

            o    If a Record Route and/or Timestamp option is received
                 in a Timestamp Request, this (these) option(s) SHOULD
                 be updated to include the current host and included in
                 the IP header of the Timestamp Reply message.

            o    Incoming Timestamp Reply messages MUST be passed up to
                 the ICMP user interface.

            The preferred form for a timestamp value (the "standard
            value") is in units of milliseconds since midnight Universal
            Time.  However, it may be difficult to provide this value
            with millisecond resolution.  For example, many systems use
            clocks that update only at line frequency, 50 or 60 times
            per second.  Therefore, some latitude is allowed in a
            "standard value":

            (a)  A "standard value" MUST be updated at least 15 times
                 per second (i.e., at most the six low-order bits of the
                 value may be undefined).

            (b)  The accuracy of a "standard value" MUST approximate
                 that of operator-set CPU clocks, i.e., correct within a
                 few minutes.








Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 44]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


         3.2.2.9  Address Mask Request/Reply: RFC-950

            A host MUST support the first, and MAY implement all three,
            of the following methods for determining the address mask(s)
            corresponding to its IP address(es):

            (1)  static configuration information;

            (2)  obtaining the address mask(s) dynamically as a side-
                 effect of the system initialization process (see
                 [INTRO:1]); and

            (3)  sending ICMP Address Mask Request(s) and receiving ICMP
                 Address Mask Reply(s).

            The choice of method to be used in a particular host MUST be
            configurable.

            When method (3), the use of Address Mask messages, is
            enabled, then:

            (a)  When it initializes, the host MUST broadcast an Address
                 Mask Request message on the connected network
                 corresponding to the IP address.  It MUST retransmit
                 this message a small number of times if it does not
                 receive an immediate Address Mask Reply.

            (b)  Until it has received an Address Mask Reply, the host
                 SHOULD assume a mask appropriate for the address class
                 of the IP address, i.e., assume that the connected
                 network is not subnetted.

            (c)  The first Address Mask Reply message received MUST be
                 used to set the address mask corresponding to the
                 particular local IP address.  This is true even if the
                 first Address Mask Reply message is "unsolicited", in
                 which case it will have been broadcast and may arrive
                 after the host has ceased to retransmit Address Mask
                 Requests.  Once the mask has been set by an Address
                 Mask Reply, later Address Mask Reply messages MUST be
                 (silently) ignored.

            Conversely, if Address Mask messages are disabled, then no
            ICMP Address Mask Requests will be sent, and any ICMP
            Address Mask Replies received for that local IP address MUST
            be (silently) ignored.

            A host SHOULD make some reasonableness check on any address



Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 45]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


            mask it installs; see IMPLEMENTATION section below.

            A system MUST NOT send an Address Mask Reply unless it is an
            authoritative agent for address masks.  An authoritative
            agent may be a host or a gateway, but it MUST be explicitly
            configured as a address mask agent.  Receiving an address
            mask via an Address Mask Reply does not give the receiver
            authority and MUST NOT be used as the basis for issuing
            Address Mask Replies.

            With a statically configured address mask, there SHOULD be
            an additional configuration flag that determines whether the
            host is to act as an authoritative agent for this mask,
            i.e., whether it will answer Address Mask Request messages
            using this mask.

            If it is configured as an agent, the host MUST broadcast an
            Address Mask Reply for the mask on the appropriate interface
            when it initializes.

            See "System Initialization" in [INTRO:1] for more
            information about the use of Address Mask Request/Reply
            messages.

            DISCUSSION
                 Hosts that casually send Address Mask Replies with
                 invalid address masks have often been a serious
                 nuisance.  To prevent this, Address Mask Replies ought
                 to be sent only by authoritative agents that have been
                 selected by explicit administrative action.

                 When an authoritative agent receives an Address Mask
                 Request message, it will send a unicast Address Mask
                 Reply to the source IP address.  If the network part of
                 this address is zero (see (a) and (b) in 3.2.1.3), the
                 Reply will be broadcast.

                 Getting no reply to its Address Mask Request messages,
                 a host will assume there is no agent and use an
                 unsubnetted mask, but the agent may be only temporarily
                 unreachable.  An agent will broadcast an unsolicited
                 Address Mask Reply whenever it initializes, in order to
                 update the masks of all hosts that have initialized in
                 the meantime.

            IMPLEMENTATION:
                 The following reasonableness check on an address mask
                 is suggested: the mask is not all 1 bits, and it is



Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 46]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


                 either zero or else the 8 highest-order bits are on.

      3.2.3  Internet Group Management Protocol IGMP

         IGMP [IP:4] is a protocol used between hosts and gateways on a
         single network to establish hosts' membership in particular
         multicast groups.  The gateways use this information, in
         conjunction with a multicast routing protocol, to support IP
         multicasting across the Internet.

         At this time, implementation of IGMP is OPTIONAL; see Section
         3.3.7 for more information.  Without IGMP, a host can still
         participate in multicasting local to its connected networks.

   3.3  SPECIFIC ISSUES

      3.3.1  Routing Outbound Datagrams

         The IP layer chooses the correct next hop for each datagram it
         sends.  If the destination is on a connected network, the
         datagram is sent directly to the destination host; otherwise,
         it has to be routed to a gateway on a connected network.

         3.3.1.1  Local/Remote Decision

            To decide if the destination is on a connected network, the
            following algorithm MUST be used [see IP:3]:

            (a)  The address mask (particular to a local IP address for
                 a multihomed host) is a 32-bit mask that selects the
                 network number and subnet number fields of the
                 corresponding IP address.

            (b)  If the IP destination address bits extracted by the
                 address mask match the IP source address bits extracted
                 by the same mask, then the destination is on the
                 corresponding connected network, and the datagram is to
                 be transmitted directly to the destination host.

            (c)  If not, then the destination is accessible only through
                 a gateway.  Selection of a gateway is described below
                 (3.3.1.2).

            A special-case destination address is handled as follows:

            *    For a limited broadcast or a multicast address, simply
                 pass the datagram to the link layer for the appropriate
                 interface.



Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 47]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


            *    For a (network or subnet) directed broadcast, the
                 datagram can use the standard routing algorithms.

            The host IP layer MUST operate correctly in a minimal
            network environment, and in particular, when there are no
            gateways.  For example, if the IP layer of a host insists on
            finding at least one gateway to initialize, the host will be
            unable to operate on a single isolated broadcast net.

         3.3.1.2  Gateway Selection

            To efficiently route a series of datagrams to the same
            destination, the source host MUST keep a "route cache" of
            mappings to next-hop gateways.  A host uses the following
            basic algorithm on this cache to route a datagram; this
            algorithm is designed to put the primary routing burden on
            the gateways [IP:11].

            (a)  If the route cache contains no information for a
                 particular destination, the host chooses a "default"
                 gateway and sends the datagram to it.  It also builds a
                 corresponding Route Cache entry.

            (b)  If that gateway is not the best next hop to the
                 destination, the gateway will forward the datagram to
                 the best next-hop gateway and return an ICMP Redirect
                 message to the source host.

            (c)  When it receives a Redirect, the host updates the
                 next-hop gateway in the appropriate route cache entry,
                 so later datagrams to the same destination will go
                 directly to the best gateway.

            Since the subnet mask appropriate to the destination address
            is generally not known, a Network Redirect message SHOULD be
            treated identically to a Host Redirect message; i.e., the
            cache entry for the destination host (only) would be updated
            (or created, if an entry for that host did not exist) for
            the new gateway.

            DISCUSSION:
                 This recommendation is to protect against gateways that
                 erroneously send Network Redirects for a subnetted
                 network, in violation of the gateway requirements
                 [INTRO:2].

            When there is no route cache entry for the destination host
            address (and the destination is not on the connected



Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 48]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


            network), the IP layer MUST pick a gateway from its list of
            "default" gateways.  The IP layer MUST support multiple
            default gateways.

            As an extra feature, a host IP layer MAY implement a table
            of "static routes".  Each such static route MAY include a
            flag specifying whether it may be overridden by ICMP
            Redirects.

            DISCUSSION:
                 A host generally needs to know at least one default
                 gateway to get started.  This information can be
                 obtained from a configuration file or else from the
                 host startup sequence, e.g., the BOOTP protocol (see
                 [INTRO:1]).

                 It has been suggested that a host can augment its list
                 of default gateways by recording any new gateways it
                 learns about.  For example, it can record every gateway
                 to which it is ever redirected.  Such a feature, while
                 possibly useful in some circumstances, may cause
                 problems in other cases (e.g., gateways are not all
                 equal), and it is not recommended.

                 A static route is typically a particular preset mapping
                 from destination host or network into a particular
                 next-hop gateway; it might also depend on the Type-of-
                 Service (see next section).  Static routes would be set
                 up by system administrators to override the normal
                 automatic routing mechanism, to handle exceptional
                 situations.  However, any static routing information is
                 a potential source of failure as configurations change
                 or equipment fails.

         3.3.1.3  Route Cache

            Each route cache entry needs to include the following
            fields:

            (1)  Local IP address (for a multihomed host)

            (2)  Destination IP address

            (3)  Type(s)-of-Service

            (4)  Next-hop gateway IP address

            Field (2) MAY be the full IP address of the destination



Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 49]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


            host, or only the destination network number.  Field (3),
            the TOS, SHOULD be included.

            See Section 3.3.4.2 for a discussion of the implications of
            multihoming for the lookup procedure in this cache.

            DISCUSSION:
                 Including the Type-of-Service field in the route cache
                 and considering it in the host route algorithm will
                 provide the necessary mechanism for the future when
                 Type-of-Service routing is commonly used in the
                 Internet.  See Section 3.2.1.6.

                 Each route cache entry defines the endpoints of an
                 Internet path.  Although the connecting path may change
                 dynamically in an arbitrary way, the transmission
                 characteristics of the path tend to remain
                 approximately constant over a time period longer than a
                 single typical host-host transport connection.
                 Therefore, a route cache entry is a natural place to
                 cache data on the properties of the path.  Examples of
                 such properties might be the maximum unfragmented
                 datagram size (see Section 3.3.3), or the average
                 round-trip delay measured by a transport protocol.
                 This data will generally be both gathered and used by a
                 higher layer protocol, e.g., by TCP, or by an
                 application using UDP.  Experiments are currently in
                 progress on caching path properties in this manner.

                 There is no consensus on whether the route cache should
                 be keyed on destination host addresses alone, or allow
                 both host and network addresses.  Those who favor the
                 use of only host addresses argue that:

                 (1)  As required in Section 3.3.1.2, Redirect messages
                      will generally result in entries keyed on
                      destination host addresses; the simplest and most
                      general scheme would be to use host addresses
                      always.

                 (2)  The IP layer may not always know the address mask
                      for a network address in a complex subnetted
                      environment.

                 (3)  The use of only host addresses allows the
                      destination address to be used as a pure 32-bit
                      number, which may allow the Internet architecture
                      to be more easily extended in the future without



Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 50]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


                      any change to the hosts.

                 The opposing view is that allowing a mixture of
                 destination hosts and networks in the route cache:

                 (1)  Saves memory space.

                 (2)  Leads to a simpler data structure, easily
                      combining the cache with the tables of default and
                      static routes (see below).

                 (3)  Provides a more useful place to cache path
                      properties, as discussed earlier.


            IMPLEMENTATION:
                 The cache needs to be large enough to include entries
                 for the maximum number of destination hosts that may be
                 in use at one time.

                 A route cache entry may also include control
                 information used to choose an entry for replacement.
                 This might take the form of a "recently used" bit, a
                 use count, or a last-used timestamp, for example.  It
                 is recommended that it include the time of last
                 modification of the entry, for diagnostic purposes.

                 An implementation may wish to reduce the overhead of
                 scanning the route cache for every datagram to be
                 transmitted.  This may be accomplished with a hash
                 table to speed the lookup, or by giving a connection-
                 oriented transport protocol a "hint" or temporary
                 handle on the appropriate cache entry, to be passed to
                 the IP layer with each subsequent datagram.

                 Although we have described the route cache, the lists
                 of default gateways, and a table of static routes as
                 conceptually distinct, in practice they may be combined
                 into a single "routing table" data structure.

         3.3.1.4  Dead Gateway Detection

            The IP layer MUST be able to detect the failure of a "next-
            hop" gateway that is listed in its route cache and to choose
            an alternate gateway (see Section 3.3.1.5).

            Dead gateway detection is covered in some detail in RFC-816
            [IP:11]. Experience to date has not produced a complete



Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 51]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


            algorithm which is totally satisfactory, though it has
            identified several forbidden paths and promising techniques.

            *    A particular gateway SHOULD NOT be used indefinitely in
                 the absence of positive indications that it is
                 functioning.

            *    Active probes such as "pinging" (i.e., using an ICMP
                 Echo Request/Reply exchange) are expensive and scale
                 poorly.  In particular, hosts MUST NOT actively check
                 the status of a first-hop gateway by simply pinging the
                 gateway continuously.

            *    Even when it is the only effective way to verify a
                 gateway's status, pinging MUST be used only when
                 traffic is being sent to the gateway and when there is
                 no other positive indication to suggest that the
                 gateway is functioning.

            *    To avoid pinging, the layers above and/or below the
                 Internet layer SHOULD be able to give "advice" on the
                 status of route cache entries when either positive
                 (gateway OK) or negative (gateway dead) information is
                 available.


            DISCUSSION:
                 If an implementation does not include an adequate
                 mechanism for detecting a dead gateway and re-routing,
                 a gateway failure may cause datagrams to apparently
                 vanish into a "black hole".  This failure can be
                 extremely confusing for users and difficult for network
                 personnel to debug.

                 The dead-gateway detection mechanism must not cause
                 unacceptable load on the host, on connected networks,
                 or on first-hop gateway(s).  The exact constraints on
                 the timeliness of dead gateway detection and on
                 acceptable load may vary somewhat depending on the
                 nature of the host's mission, but a host generally
                 needs to detect a failed first-hop gateway quickly
                 enough that transport-layer connections will not break
                 before an alternate gateway can be selected.

                 Passing advice from other layers of the protocol stack
                 complicates the interfaces between the layers, but it
                 is the preferred approach to dead gateway detection.
                 Advice can come from almost any part of the IP/TCP



Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 52]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


                 architecture, but it is expected to come primarily from
                 the transport and link layers.  Here are some possible
                 sources for gateway advice:

                 o    TCP or any connection-oriented transport protocol
                      should be able to give negative advice, e.g.,
                      triggered by excessive retransmissions.

                 o    TCP may give positive advice when (new) data is
                      acknowledged.  Even though the route may be
                      asymmetric, an ACK for new data proves that the
                      acknowleged data must have been transmitted
                      successfully.

                 o    An ICMP Redirect message from a particular gateway
                      should be used as positive advice about that
                      gateway.

                 o    Link-layer information that reliably detects and
                      reports host failures (e.g., ARPANET Destination
                      Dead messages) should be used as negative advice.

                 o    Failure to ARP or to re-validate ARP mappings may
                      be used as negative advice for the corresponding
                      IP address.

                 o    Packets arriving from a particular link-layer
                      address are evidence that the system at this
                      address is alive.  However, turning this
                      information into advice about gateways requires
                      mapping the link-layer address into an IP address,
                      and then checking that IP address against the
                      gateways pointed to by the route cache.  This is
                      probably prohibitively inefficient.

                 Note that positive advice that is given for every
                 datagram received may cause unacceptable overhead in
                 the implementation.

                 While advice might be passed using required arguments
                 in all interfaces to the IP layer, some transport and
                 application layer protocols cannot deduce the correct
                 advice.  These interfaces must therefore allow a
                 neutral value for advice, since either always-positive
                 or always-negative advice leads to incorrect behavior.

                 There is another technique for dead gateway detection
                 that has been commonly used but is not recommended.



Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 53]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


                 This technique depends upon the host passively
                 receiving ("wiretapping") the Interior Gateway Protocol
                 (IGP) datagrams that the gateways are broadcasting to
                 each other.  This approach has the drawback that a host
                 needs to recognize all the interior gateway protocols
                 that gateways may use (see [INTRO:2]).  In addition, it
                 only works on a broadcast network.

                 At present, pinging (i.e., using ICMP Echo messages) is
                 the mechanism for gateway probing when absolutely
                 required.  A successful ping guarantees that the
                 addressed interface and its associated machine are up,
                 but it does not guarantee that the machine is a gateway
                 as opposed to a host.  The normal inference is that if
                 a Redirect or other evidence indicates that a machine
                 was a gateway, successful pings will indicate that the
                 machine is still up and hence still a gateway.
                 However, since a host silently discards packets that a
                 gateway would forward or redirect, this assumption
                 could sometimes fail.  To avoid this problem, a new
                 ICMP message under development will ask "are you a
                 gateway?"

            IMPLEMENTATION:
                 The following specific algorithm has been suggested:

                 o    Associate a "reroute timer" with each gateway
                      pointed to by the route cache.  Initialize the
                      timer to a value Tr, which must be small enough to
                      allow detection of a dead gateway before transport
                      connections time out.

                 o    Positive advice would reset the reroute timer to
                      Tr.  Negative advice would reduce or zero the
                      reroute timer.

                 o    Whenever the IP layer used a particular gateway to
                      route a datagram, it would check the corresponding
                      reroute timer.  If the timer had expired (reached
                      zero), the IP layer would send a ping to the
                      gateway, followed immediately by the datagram.

                 o    The ping (ICMP Echo) would be sent again if
                      necessary, up to N times.  If no ping reply was
                      received in N tries, the gateway would be assumed
                      to have failed, and a new first-hop gateway would
                      be chosen for all cache entries pointing to the
                      failed gateway.



Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 54]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


                 Note that the size of Tr is inversely related to the
                 amount of advice available.  Tr should be large enough
                 to insure that:

                 *    Any pinging will be at a low level (e.g., <10%) of
                      all packets sent to a gateway from the host, AND

                 *    pinging is infrequent (e.g., every 3 minutes)

                 Since the recommended algorithm is concerned with the
                 gateways pointed to by route cache entries, rather than
                 the cache entries themselves, a two level data
                 structure (perhaps coordinated with ARP or similar
                 caches) may be desirable for implementing a route
                 cache.

         3.3.1.5  New Gateway Selection

            If the failed gateway is not the current default, the IP
            layer can immediately switch to a default gateway.  If it is
            the current default that failed, the IP layer MUST select a
            different default gateway (assuming more than one default is
            known) for the failed route and for establishing new routes.

            DISCUSSION:
                 When a gateway does fail, the other gateways on the
                 connected network will learn of the failure through
                 some inter-gateway routing protocol.  However, this
                 will not happen instantaneously, since gateway routing
                 protocols typically have a settling time of 30-60
                 seconds.  If the host switches to an alternative
                 gateway before the gateways have agreed on the failure,
                 the new target gateway will probably forward the
                 datagram to the failed gateway and send a Redirect back
                 to the host pointing to the failed gateway (!).  The
                 result is likely to be a rapid oscillation in the
                 contents of the host's route cache during the gateway
                 settling period.  It has been proposed that the dead-
                 gateway logic should include some hysteresis mechanism
                 to prevent such oscillations.  However, experience has
                 not shown any harm from such oscillations, since
                 service cannot be restored to the host until the
                 gateways' routing information does settle down.

            IMPLEMENTATION:
                 One implementation technique for choosing a new default
                 gateway is to simply round-robin among the default
                 gateways in the host's list.  Another is to rank the



Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 55]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


                 gateways in priority order, and when the current
                 default gateway is not the highest priority one, to
                 "ping" the higher-priority gateways slowly to detect
                 when they return to service.  This pinging can be at a
                 very low rate, e.g., 0.005 per second.

         3.3.1.6  Initialization

            The following information MUST be configurable:

            (1)  IP address(es).

            (2)  Address mask(s).

            (3)  A list of default gateways, with a preference level.

            A manual method of entering this configuration data MUST be
            provided.  In addition, a variety of methods can be used to
            determine this information dynamically; see the section on
            "Host Initialization" in [INTRO:1].

            DISCUSSION:
                 Some host implementations use "wiretapping" of gateway
                 protocols on a broadcast network to learn what gateways
                 exist.  A standard method for default gateway discovery
                 is under development.

      3.3.2  Reassembly

         The IP layer MUST implement reassembly of IP datagrams.

         We designate the largest datagram size that can be reassembled
         by EMTU_R ("Effective MTU to receive"); this is sometimes
         called the "reassembly buffer size".  EMTU_R MUST be greater
         than or equal to 576, SHOULD be either configurable or
         indefinite, and SHOULD be greater than or equal to the MTU of
         the connected network(s).

         DISCUSSION:
              A fixed EMTU_R limit should not be built into the code
              because some application layer protocols require EMTU_R
              values larger than 576.

         IMPLEMENTATION:
              An implementation may use a contiguous reassembly buffer
              for each datagram, or it may use a more complex data
              structure that places no definite limit on the reassembled
              datagram size; in the latter case, EMTU_R is said to be



Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 56]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


              "indefinite".

              Logically, reassembly is performed by simply copying each
              fragment into the packet buffer at the proper offset.
              Note that fragments may overlap if successive
              retransmissions use different packetizing but the same
              reassembly Id.

              The tricky part of reassembly is the bookkeeping to
              determine when all bytes of the datagram have been
              reassembled.  We recommend Clark's algorithm [IP:10] that
              requires no additional data space for the bookkeeping.
              However, note that, contrary to [IP:10], the first
              fragment header needs to be saved for inclusion in a
              possible ICMP Time Exceeded (Reassembly Timeout) message.

         There MUST be a mechanism by which the transport layer can
         learn MMS_R, the maximum message size that can be received and
         reassembled in an IP datagram (see GET_MAXSIZES calls in
         Section 3.4).  If EMTU_R is not indefinite, then the value of
         MMS_R is given by:

            MMS_R = EMTU_R - 20

         since 20 is the minimum size of an IP header.

         There MUST be a reassembly timeout.  The reassembly timeout
         value SHOULD be a fixed value, not set from the remaining TTL.
         It is recommended that the value lie between 60 seconds and 120
         seconds.  If this timeout expires, the partially-reassembled
         datagram MUST be discarded and an ICMP Time Exceeded message
         sent to the source host (if fragment zero has been received).

         DISCUSSION:
              The IP specification says that the reassembly timeout
              should be the remaining TTL from the IP header, but this
              does not work well because gateways generally treat TTL as
              a simple hop count rather than an elapsed time.  If the
              reassembly timeout is too small, datagrams will be
              discarded unnecessarily, and communication may fail.  The
              timeout needs to be at least as large as the typical
              maximum delay across the Internet.  A realistic minimum
              reassembly timeout would be 60 seconds.

              It has been suggested that a cache might be kept of
              round-trip times measured by transport protocols for
              various destinations, and that these values might be used
              to dynamically determine a reasonable reassembly timeout



Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 57]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


              value.  Further investigation of this approach is
              required.

              If the reassembly timeout is set too high, buffer
              resources in the receiving host will be tied up too long,
              and the MSL (Maximum Segment Lifetime) [TCP:1] will be
              larger than necessary.  The MSL controls the maximum rate
              at which fragmented datagrams can be sent using distinct
              values of the 16-bit Ident field; a larger MSL lowers the
              maximum rate.  The TCP specification [TCP:1] arbitrarily
              assumes a value of 2 minutes for MSL.  This sets an upper
              limit on a reasonable reassembly timeout value.

      3.3.3  Fragmentation

         Optionally, the IP layer MAY implement a mechanism to fragment
         outgoing datagrams intentionally.

         We designate by EMTU_S ("Effective MTU for sending") the
         maximum IP datagram size that may be sent, for a particular
         combination of IP source and destination addresses and perhaps
         TOS.

         A host MUST implement a mechanism to allow the transport layer
         to learn MMS_S, the maximum transport-layer message size that
         may be sent for a given {source, destination, TOS} triplet (see
         GET_MAXSIZES call in Section 3.4).  If no local fragmentation
         is performed, the value of MMS_S will be:

            MMS_S = EMTU_S - <IP header size>

         and EMTU_S must be less than or equal to the MTU of the network
         interface corresponding to the source address of the datagram.
         Note that <IP header size> in this equation will be 20, unless
         the IP reserves space to insert IP options for its own purposes
         in addition to any options inserted by the transport layer.

         A host that does not implement local fragmentation MUST ensure
         that the transport layer (for TCP) or the application layer
         (for UDP) obtains MMS_S from the IP layer and does not send a
         datagram exceeding MMS_S in size.

         It is generally desirable to avoid local fragmentation and to
         choose EMTU_S low enough to avoid fragmentation in any gateway
         along the path.  In the absence of actual knowledge of the
         minimum MTU along the path, the IP layer SHOULD use
         EMTU_S <= 576 whenever the destination address is not on a
         connected network, and otherwise use the connected network's



Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 58]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


         MTU.

         The MTU of each physical interface MUST be configurable.

         A host IP layer implementation MAY have a configuration flag
         "All-Subnets-MTU", indicating that the MTU of the connected
         network is to be used for destinations on different subnets
         within the same network, but not for other networks.  Thus,
         this flag causes the network class mask, rather than the subnet
         address mask, to be used to choose an EMTU_S.  For a multihomed
         host, an "All-Subnets-MTU" flag is needed for each network
         interface.

         DISCUSSION:
              Picking the correct datagram size to use when sending data
              is a complex topic [IP:9].

              (a)  In general, no host is required to accept an IP
                   datagram larger than 576 bytes (including header and
                   data), so a host must not send a larger datagram
                   without explicit knowledge or prior arrangement with
                   the destination host.  Thus, MMS_S is only an upper
                   bound on the datagram size that a transport protocol
                   may send; even when MMS_S exceeds 556, the transport
                   layer must limit its messages to 556 bytes in the
                   absence of other knowledge about the destination
                   host.

              (b)  Some transport protocols (e.g., TCP) provide a way to
                   explicitly inform the sender about the largest
                   datagram the other end can receive and reassemble
                   [IP:7].  There is no corresponding mechanism in the
                   IP layer.

                   A transport protocol that assumes an EMTU_R larger
                   than 576 (see Section 3.3.2), can send a datagram of
                   this larger size to another host that implements the
                   same protocol.

              (c)  Hosts should ideally limit their EMTU_S for a given
                   destination to the minimum MTU of all the networks
                   along the path, to avoid any fragmentation.  IP
                   fragmentation, while formally correct, can create a
                   serious transport protocol performance problem,
                   because loss of a single fragment means all the
                   fragments in the segment must be retransmitted
                   [IP:9].




Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 59]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


              Since nearly all networks in the Internet currently
              support an MTU of 576 or greater, we strongly recommend
              the use of 576 for datagrams sent to non-local networks.

              It has been suggested that a host could determine the MTU
              over a given path by sending a zero-offset datagram
              fragment and waiting for the receiver to time out the
              reassembly (which cannot complete!) and return an ICMP
              Time Exceeded message.  This message would include the
              largest remaining fragment header in its body.  More
              direct mechanisms are being experimented with, but have
              not yet been adopted (see e.g., RFC-1063).

      3.3.4  Local Multihoming

         3.3.4.1  Introduction

            A multihomed host has multiple IP addresses, which we may
            think of as "logical interfaces".  These logical interfaces
            may be associated with one or more physical interfaces, and
            these physical interfaces may be connected to the same or
            different networks.

            Here are some important cases of multihoming:

            (a)  Multiple Logical Networks

                 The Internet architects envisioned that each physical
                 network would have a single unique IP network (or
                 subnet) number.  However, LAN administrators have
                 sometimes found it useful to violate this assumption,
                 operating a LAN with multiple logical networks per
                 physical connected network.

                 If a host connected to such a physical network is
                 configured to handle traffic for each of N different
                 logical networks, then the host will have N logical
                 interfaces.  These could share a single physical
                 interface, or might use N physical interfaces to the
                 same network.

            (b)  Multiple Logical Hosts

                 When a host has multiple IP addresses that all have the
                 same <Network-number> part (and the same <Subnet-
                 number> part, if any), the logical interfaces are known
                 as "logical hosts".  These logical interfaces might
                 share a single physical interface or might use separate



Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 60]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


                 physical interfaces to the same physical network.

            (c)  Simple Multihoming

                 In this case, each logical interface is mapped into a
                 separate physical interface and each physical interface
                 is connected to a different physical network.  The term
                 "multihoming" was originally applied only to this case,
                 but it is now applied more generally.

                 A host with embedded gateway functionality will
                 typically fall into the simple multihoming case.  Note,
                 however, that a host may be simply multihomed without
                 containing an embedded gateway, i.e., without
                 forwarding datagrams from one connected network to
                 another.

                 This case presents the most difficult routing problems.
                 The choice of interface (i.e., the choice of first-hop
                 network) may significantly affect performance or even
                 reachability of remote parts of the Internet.


            Finally, we note another possibility that is NOT
            multihoming:  one logical interface may be bound to multiple
            physical interfaces, in order to increase the reliability or
            throughput between directly connected machines by providing
            alternative physical paths between them.  For instance, two
            systems might be connected by multiple point-to-point links.
            We call this "link-layer multiplexing".  With link-layer
            multiplexing, the protocols above the link layer are unaware
            that multiple physical interfaces are present; the link-
            layer device driver is responsible for multiplexing and
            routing packets across the physical interfaces.

            In the Internet protocol architecture, a transport protocol
            instance ("entity") has no address of its own, but instead
            uses a single Internet Protocol (IP) address.  This has
            implications for the IP, transport, and application layers,
            and for the interfaces between them.  In particular, the
            application software may have to be aware of the multiple IP
            addresses of a multihomed host; in other cases, the choice
            can be made within the network software.

         3.3.4.2  Multihoming Requirements

            The following general rules apply to the selection of an IP
            source address for sending a datagram from a multihomed



Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 61]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


            host.

            (1)  If the datagram is sent in response to a received
                 datagram, the source address for the response SHOULD be
                 the specific-destination address of the request.  See
                 Sections 4.1.3.5 and 4.2.3.7 and the "General Issues"
                 section of [INTRO:1] for more specific requirements on
                 higher layers.

                 Otherwise, a source address must be selected.

            (2)  An application MUST be able to explicitly specify the
                 source address for initiating a connection or a
                 request.

            (3)  In the absence of such a specification, the networking
                 software MUST choose a source address.  Rules for this
                 choice are described below.


            There are two key requirement issues related to multihoming:

            (A)  A host MAY silently discard an incoming datagram whose
                 destination address does not correspond to the physical
                 interface through which it is received.

            (B)  A host MAY restrict itself to sending (non-source-
                 routed) IP datagrams only through the physical
                 interface that corresponds to the IP source address of
                 the datagrams.


            DISCUSSION:
                 Internet host implementors have used two different
                 conceptual models for multihoming, briefly summarized
                 in the following discussion.  This document takes no
                 stand on which model is preferred; each seems to have a
                 place.  This ambivalence is reflected in the issues (A)
                 and (B) being optional.

                 o    Strong ES Model

                      The Strong ES (End System, i.e., host) model
                      emphasizes the host/gateway (ES/IS) distinction,
                      and would therefore substitute MUST for MAY in
                      issues (A) and (B) above.  It tends to model a
                      multihomed host as a set of logical hosts within
                      the same physical host.



Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 62]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


                      With respect to (A), proponents of the Strong ES
                      model note that automatic Internet routing
                      mechanisms could not route a datagram to a
                      physical interface that did not correspond to the
                      destination address.

                      Under the Strong ES model, the route computation
                      for an outgoing datagram is the mapping:

                         route(src IP addr, dest IP addr, TOS)
                                                        -> gateway

                      Here the source address is included as a parameter
                      in order to select a gateway that is directly
                      reachable on the corresponding physical interface.
                      Note that this model logically requires that in
                      general there be at least one default gateway, and
                      preferably multiple defaults, for each IP source
                      address.

                 o    Weak ES Model

                      This view de-emphasizes the ES/IS distinction, and
                      would therefore substitute MUST NOT for MAY in
                      issues (A) and (B).  This model may be the more
                      natural one for hosts that wiretap gateway routing
                      protocols, and is necessary for hosts that have
                      embedded gateway functionality.

                      The Weak ES Model may cause the Redirect mechanism
                      to fail.  If a datagram is sent out a physical
                      interface that does not correspond to the
                      destination address, the first-hop gateway will
                      not realize when it needs to send a Redirect.  On
                      the other hand, if the host has embedded gateway
                      functionality, then it has routing information
                      without listening to Redirects.

                      In the Weak ES model, the route computation for an
                      outgoing datagram is the mapping:

                         route(dest IP addr, TOS) -> gateway, interface









Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 63]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


         3.3.4.3  Choosing a Source Address

            DISCUSSION:
                 When it sends an initial connection request (e.g., a
                 TCP "SYN" segment) or a datagram service request (e.g.,
                 a UDP-based query), the transport layer on a multihomed
                 host needs to know which source address to use.  If the
                 application does not specify it, the transport layer
                 must ask the IP layer to perform the conceptual
                 mapping:

                     GET_SRCADDR(remote IP addr, TOS)
                                               -> local IP address

                 Here TOS is the Type-of-Service value (see Section
                 3.2.1.6), and the result is the desired source address.
                 The following rules are suggested for implementing this
                 mapping:

                 (a)  If the remote Internet address lies on one of the
                      (sub-) nets to which the host is directly
                      connected, a corresponding source address may be
                      chosen, unless the corresponding interface is
                      known to be down.

                 (b)  The route cache may be consulted, to see if there
                      is an active route to the specified destination
                      network through any network interface; if so, a
                      local IP address corresponding to that interface
                      may be chosen.

                 (c)  The table of static routes, if any (see Section
                      3.3.1.2) may be similarly consulted.

                 (d)  The default gateways may be consulted.  If these
                      gateways are assigned to different interfaces, the
                      interface corresponding to the gateway with the
                      highest preference may be chosen.

                 In the future, there may be a defined way for a
                 multihomed host to ask the gateways on all connected
                 networks for advice about the best network to use for a
                 given destination.

            IMPLEMENTATION:
                 It will be noted that this process is essentially the
                 same as datagram routing (see Section 3.3.1), and
                 therefore hosts may be able to combine the



Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 64]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


                 implementation of the two functions.

      3.3.5  Source Route Forwarding

         Subject to restrictions given below, a host MAY be able to act
         as an intermediate hop in a source route, forwarding a source-
         routed datagram to the next specified hop.

         However, in performing this gateway-like function, the host
         MUST obey all the relevant rules for a gateway forwarding
         source-routed datagrams [INTRO:2].  This includes the following
         specific provisions, which override the corresponding host
         provisions given earlier in this document:

         (A)  TTL (ref. Section 3.2.1.7)

              The TTL field MUST be decremented and the datagram perhaps
              discarded as specified for a gateway in [INTRO:2].

         (B)  ICMP Destination Unreachable (ref. Section 3.2.2.1)

              A host MUST be able to generate Destination Unreachable
              messages with the following codes:

              4    (Fragmentation Required but DF Set) when a source-
                   routed datagram cannot be fragmented to fit into the
                   target network;

              5    (Source Route Failed) when a source-routed datagram
                   cannot be forwarded, e.g., because of a routing
                   problem or because the next hop of a strict source
                   route is not on a connected network.

         (C)  IP Source Address (ref. Section 3.2.1.3)

              A source-routed datagram being forwarded MAY (and normally
              will) have a source address that is not one of the IP
              addresses of the forwarding host.

         (D)  Record Route Option (ref. Section 3.2.1.8d)

              A host that is forwarding a source-routed datagram
              containing a Record Route option MUST update that option,
              if it has room.

         (E)  Timestamp Option (ref. Section 3.2.1.8e)

              A host that is forwarding a source-routed datagram



Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 65]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


              containing a Timestamp Option MUST add the current
              timestamp to that option, according to the rules for this
              option.

         To define the rules restricting host forwarding of source-
         routed datagrams, we use the term "local source-routing" if the
         next hop will be through the same physical interface through
         which the datagram arrived; otherwise, it is "non-local
         source-routing".

         o    A host is permitted to perform local source-routing
              without restriction.

         o    A host that supports non-local source-routing MUST have a
              configurable switch to disable forwarding, and this switch
              MUST default to disabled.

         o    The host MUST satisfy all gateway requirements for
              configurable policy filters [INTRO:2] restricting non-
              local forwarding.

         If a host receives a datagram with an incomplete source route
         but does not forward it for some reason, the host SHOULD return
         an ICMP Destination Unreachable (code 5, Source Route Failed)
         message, unless the datagram was itself an ICMP error message.

      3.3.6  Broadcasts

         Section 3.2.1.3 defined the four standard IP broadcast address
         forms:

           Limited Broadcast:  {-1, -1}

           Directed Broadcast:  {<Network-number>,-1}

           Subnet Directed Broadcast:
                              {<Network-number>,<Subnet-number>,-1}

           All-Subnets Directed Broadcast: {<Network-number>,-1,-1}

         A host MUST recognize any of these forms in the destination
         address of an incoming datagram.

         There is a class of hosts* that use non-standard broadcast
         address forms, substituting 0 for -1.  All hosts SHOULD
_________________________
*4.2BSD Unix and its derivatives, but not 4.3BSD.




Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 66]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


         recognize and accept any of these non-standard broadcast
         addresses as the destination address of an incoming datagram.
         A host MAY optionally have a configuration option to choose the
         0 or the -1 form of broadcast address, for each physical
         interface, but this option SHOULD default to the standard (-1)
         form.

         When a host sends a datagram to a link-layer broadcast address,
         the IP destination address MUST be a legal IP broadcast or IP
         multicast address.

         A host SHOULD silently discard a datagram that is received via
         a link-layer broadcast (see Section 2.4) but does not specify
         an IP multicast or broadcast destination address.

         Hosts SHOULD use the Limited Broadcast address to broadcast to
         a connected network.


         DISCUSSION:
              Using the Limited Broadcast address instead of a Directed
              Broadcast address may improve system robustness.  Problems
              are often caused by machines that do not understand the
              plethora of broadcast addresses (see Section 3.2.1.3), or
              that may have different ideas about which broadcast
              addresses are in use.  The prime example of the latter is
              machines that do not understand subnetting but are
              attached to a subnetted net.  Sending a Subnet Broadcast
              for the connected network will confuse those machines,
              which will see it as a message to some other host.

              There has been discussion on whether a datagram addressed
              to the Limited Broadcast address ought to be sent from all
              the interfaces of a multihomed host.  This specification
              takes no stand on the issue.

      3.3.7  IP Multicasting

         A host SHOULD support local IP multicasting on all connected
         networks for which a mapping from Class D IP addresses to
         link-layer addresses has been specified (see below).  Support
         for local IP multicasting includes sending multicast datagrams,
         joining multicast groups and receiving multicast datagrams, and
         leaving multicast groups.  This implies support for all of
         [IP:4] except the IGMP protocol itself, which is OPTIONAL.






Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 67]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


         DISCUSSION:
              IGMP provides gateways that are capable of multicast
              routing with the information required to support IP
              multicasting across multiple networks.  At this time,
              multicast-routing gateways are in the experimental stage
              and are not widely available.  For hosts that are not
              connected to networks with multicast-routing gateways or
              that do not need to receive multicast datagrams
              originating on other networks, IGMP serves no purpose and
              is therefore optional for now.  However, the rest of
              [IP:4] is currently recommended for the purpose of
              providing IP-layer access to local network multicast
              addressing, as a preferable alternative to local broadcast
              addressing.  It is expected that IGMP will become
              recommended at some future date, when multicast-routing
              gateways have become more widely available.

         If IGMP is not implemented, a host SHOULD still join the "all-
         hosts" group (224.0.0.1) when the IP layer is initialized and
         remain a member for as long as the IP layer is active.

         DISCUSSION:
              Joining the "all-hosts" group will support strictly local
              uses of multicasting, e.g., a gateway discovery protocol,
              even if IGMP is not implemented.

         The mapping of IP Class D addresses to local addresses is
         currently specified for the following types of networks:

         o    Ethernet/IEEE 802.3, as defined in [IP:4].

         o    Any network that supports broadcast but not multicast,
              addressing: all IP Class D addresses map to the local
              broadcast address.

         o    Any type of point-to-point link (e.g., SLIP or HDLC
              links): no mapping required.  All IP multicast datagrams
              are sent as-is, inside the local framing.

         Mappings for other types of networks will be specified in the
         future.

         A host SHOULD provide a way for higher-layer protocols or
         applications to determine which of the host's connected
         network(s) support IP multicast addressing.






Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 68]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


      3.3.8  Error Reporting

         Wherever practical, hosts MUST return ICMP error datagrams on
         detection of an error, except in those cases where returning an
         ICMP error message is specifically prohibited.

         DISCUSSION:
              A common phenomenon in datagram networks is the "black
              hole disease": datagrams are sent out, but nothing comes
              back.  Without any error datagrams, it is difficult for
              the user to figure out what the problem is.

   3.4  INTERNET/TRANSPORT LAYER INTERFACE

      The interface between the IP layer and the transport layer MUST
      provide full access to all the mechanisms of the IP layer,
      including options, Type-of-Service, and Time-to-Live.  The
      transport layer MUST either have mechanisms to set these interface
      parameters, or provide a path to pass them through from an
      application, or both.

      DISCUSSION:
           Applications are urged to make use of these mechanisms where
           applicable, even when the mechanisms are not currently
           effective in the Internet (e.g., TOS).  This will allow these
           mechanisms to be immediately useful when they do become
           effective, without a large amount of retrofitting of host
           software.

      We now describe a conceptual interface between the transport layer
      and the IP layer, as a set of procedure calls.  This is an
      extension of the information in Section 3.3 of RFC-791 [IP:1].


      *    Send Datagram

                SEND(src, dst, prot, TOS, TTL, BufPTR, len, Id, DF, opt
                     => result )

           where the parameters are defined in RFC-791.  Passing an Id
           parameter is optional; see Section 3.2.1.5.


      *    Receive Datagram

                RECV(BufPTR, prot
                     => result, src, dst, SpecDest, TOS, len, opt)




Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 69]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


           All the parameters are defined in RFC-791, except for:

                SpecDest = specific-destination address of datagram
                            (defined in Section 3.2.1.3)

           The result parameter dst contains the datagram's destination
           address.  Since this may be a broadcast or multicast address,
           the SpecDest parameter (not shown in RFC-791) MUST be passed.
           The parameter opt contains all the IP options received in the
           datagram; these MUST also be passed to the transport layer.


      *    Select Source Address

                GET_SRCADDR(remote, TOS)  -> local

                remote = remote IP address
                TOS = Type-of-Service
                local = local IP address

           See Section 3.3.4.3.


      *    Find Maximum Datagram Sizes

                GET_MAXSIZES(local, remote, TOS) -> MMS_R, MMS_S

                MMS_R = maximum receive transport-message size.
                MMS_S = maximum send transport-message size.
               (local, remote, TOS defined above)

           See Sections 3.3.2 and 3.3.3.


      *    Advice on Delivery Success

                ADVISE_DELIVPROB(sense, local, remote, TOS)

           Here the parameter sense is a 1-bit flag indicating whether
           positive or negative advice is being given; see the
           discussion in Section 3.3.1.4. The other parameters were
           defined earlier.


      *    Send ICMP Message

                SEND_ICMP(src, dst, TOS, TTL, BufPTR, len, Id, DF, opt)
                     -> result



Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 70]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


                (Parameters defined in RFC-791).

           Passing an Id parameter is optional; see Section 3.2.1.5.
           The transport layer MUST be able to send certain ICMP
           messages:  Port Unreachable or any of the query-type
           messages.  This function could be considered to be a special
           case of the SEND() call, of course; we describe it separately
           for clarity.


      *    Receive ICMP Message

                RECV_ICMP(BufPTR ) -> result, src, dst, len, opt

                (Parameters defined in RFC-791).

           The IP layer MUST pass certain ICMP messages up to the
           appropriate transport-layer routine.  This function could be
           considered to be a special case of the RECV() call, of
           course; we describe it separately for clarity.

           For an ICMP error message, the data that is passed up MUST
           include the original Internet header plus all the octets of
           the original message that are included in the ICMP message.
           This data will be used by the transport layer to locate the
           connection state information, if any.

           In particular, the following ICMP messages are to be passed
           up:

           o    Destination Unreachable

           o    Source Quench

           o    Echo Reply (to ICMP user interface, unless the Echo
                Request originated in the IP layer)

           o    Timestamp Reply (to ICMP user interface)

           o    Time Exceeded


      DISCUSSION:
           In the future, there may be additions to this interface to
           pass path data (see Section 3.3.1.3) between the IP and
           transport layers.





Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 71]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


   3.5  INTERNET LAYER REQUIREMENTS SUMMARY


                                                 |        | | | |S| |
                                                 |        | | | |H| |F
                                                 |        | | | |O|M|o
                                                 |        | |S| |U|U|o
                                                 |        | |H| |L|S|t
                                                 |        |M|O| |D|T|n
                                                 |        |U|U|M| | |o
                                                 |        |S|L|A|N|N|t
                                                 |        |T|D|Y|O|O|t
FEATURE                                          |SECTION | | | |T|T|e
-------------------------------------------------|--------|-|-|-|-|-|--
                                                 |        | | | | | |
Implement IP and ICMP                            |3.1     |x| | | | |
Handle remote multihoming in application layer   |3.1     |x| | | | |
Support local multihoming                        |3.1     | | |x| | |
Meet gateway specs if forward datagrams          |3.1     |x| | | | |
Configuration switch for embedded gateway        |3.1     |x| | | | |1
   Config switch default to non-gateway          |3.1     |x| | | | |1
   Auto-config based on number of interfaces     |3.1     | | | | |x|1
Able to log discarded datagrams                  |3.1     | |x| | | |
   Record in counter                             |3.1     | |x| | | |
                                                 |        | | | | | |
Silently discard Version != 4                    |3.2.1.1 |x| | | | |
Verify IP checksum, silently discard bad dgram   |3.2.1.2 |x| | | | |
Addressing:                                      |        | | | | | |
  Subnet addressing (RFC-950)                    |3.2.1.3 |x| | | | |
  Src address must be host's own IP address      |3.2.1.3 |x| | | | |
  Silently discard datagram with bad dest addr   |3.2.1.3 |x| | | | |
  Silently discard datagram with bad src addr    |3.2.1.3 |x| | | | |
Support reassembly                               |3.2.1.4 |x| | | | |
Retain same Id field in identical datagram       |3.2.1.5 | | |x| | |
                                                 |        | | | | | |
TOS:                                             |        | | | | | |
  Allow transport layer to set TOS               |3.2.1.6 |x| | | | |
  Pass received TOS up to transport layer        |3.2.1.6 | |x| | | |
  Use RFC-795 link-layer mappings for TOS        |3.2.1.6 | | | |x| |
TTL:                                             |        | | | | | |
  Send packet with TTL of 0                      |3.2.1.7 | | | | |x|
  Discard received packets with TTL < 2          |3.2.1.7 | | | | |x|
  Allow transport layer to set TTL               |3.2.1.7 |x| | | | |
  Fixed TTL is configurable                      |3.2.1.7 |x| | | | |
                                                 |        | | | | | |
IP Options:                                      |        | | | | | |
  Allow transport layer to send IP options       |3.2.1.8 |x| | | | |
  Pass all IP options rcvd to higher layer       |3.2.1.8 |x| | | | |



Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 72]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


  IP layer silently ignore unknown options       |3.2.1.8 |x| | | | |
  Security option                                |3.2.1.8a| | |x| | |
  Send Stream Identifier option                  |3.2.1.8b| | | |x| |
  Silently ignore Stream Identifer option        |3.2.1.8b|x| | | | |
  Record Route option                            |3.2.1.8d| | |x| | |
  Timestamp option                               |3.2.1.8e| | |x| | |
Source Route Option:                             |        | | | | | |
  Originate & terminate Source Route options     |3.2.1.8c|x| | | | |
  Datagram with completed SR passed up to TL     |3.2.1.8c|x| | | | |
  Build correct (non-redundant) return route     |3.2.1.8c|x| | | | |
  Send multiple SR options in one header         |3.2.1.8c| | | | |x|
                                                 |        | | | | | |
ICMP:                                            |        | | | | | |
  Silently discard ICMP msg with unknown type    |3.2.2   |x| | | | |
  Include more than 8 octets of orig datagram    |3.2.2   | | |x| | |
      Included octets same as received           |3.2.2   |x| | | | |
  Demux ICMP Error to transport protocol         |3.2.2   |x| | | | |
  Send ICMP error message with TOS=0             |3.2.2   | |x| | | |
  Send ICMP error message for:                   |        | | | | | |
   - ICMP error msg                              |3.2.2   | | | | |x|
   - IP b'cast or IP m'cast                      |3.2.2   | | | | |x|
   - Link-layer b'cast                           |3.2.2   | | | | |x|
   - Non-initial fragment                        |3.2.2   | | | | |x|
   - Datagram with non-unique src address        |3.2.2   | | | | |x|
  Return ICMP error msgs (when not prohibited)   |3.3.8   |x| | | | |
                                                 |        | | | | | |
  Dest Unreachable:                              |        | | | | | |
    Generate Dest Unreachable (code 2/3)         |3.2.2.1 | |x| | | |
    Pass ICMP Dest Unreachable to higher layer   |3.2.2.1 |x| | | | |
    Higher layer act on Dest Unreach             |3.2.2.1 | |x| | | |
      Interpret Dest Unreach as only hint        |3.2.2.1 |x| | | | |
  Redirect:                                      |        | | | | | |
    Host send Redirect                           |3.2.2.2 | | | |x| |
    Update route cache when recv Redirect        |3.2.2.2 |x| | | | |
    Handle both Host and Net Redirects           |3.2.2.2 |x| | | | |
    Discard illegal Redirect                     |3.2.2.2 | |x| | | |
  Source Quench:                                 |        | | | | | |
    Send Source Quench if buffering exceeded     |3.2.2.3 | | |x| | |
    Pass Source Quench to higher layer           |3.2.2.3 |x| | | | |
    Higher layer act on Source Quench            |3.2.2.3 | |x| | | |
  Time Exceeded: pass to higher layer            |3.2.2.4 |x| | | | |
  Parameter Problem:                             |        | | | | | |
    Send Parameter Problem messages              |3.2.2.5 | |x| | | |
    Pass Parameter Problem to higher layer       |3.2.2.5 |x| | | | |
    Report Parameter Problem to user             |3.2.2.5 | | |x| | |
                                                 |        | | | | | |
  ICMP Echo Request or Reply:                    |        | | | | | |
    Echo server and Echo client                  |3.2.2.6 |x| | | | |



Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 73]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


    Echo client                                  |3.2.2.6 | |x| | | |
    Discard Echo Request to broadcast address    |3.2.2.6 | | |x| | |
    Discard Echo Request to multicast address    |3.2.2.6 | | |x| | |
    Use specific-dest addr as Echo Reply src     |3.2.2.6 |x| | | | |
    Send same data in Echo Reply                 |3.2.2.6 |x| | | | |
    Pass Echo Reply to higher layer              |3.2.2.6 |x| | | | |
    Reflect Record Route, Time Stamp options     |3.2.2.6 | |x| | | |
    Reverse and reflect Source Route option      |3.2.2.6 |x| | | | |
                                                 |        | | | | | |
  ICMP Information Request or Reply:             |3.2.2.7 | | | |x| |
  ICMP Timestamp and Timestamp Reply:            |3.2.2.8 | | |x| | |
    Minimize delay variability                   |3.2.2.8 | |x| | | |1
    Silently discard b'cast Timestamp            |3.2.2.8 | | |x| | |1
    Silently discard m'cast Timestamp            |3.2.2.8 | | |x| | |1
    Use specific-dest addr as TS Reply src       |3.2.2.8 |x| | | | |1
    Reflect Record Route, Time Stamp options     |3.2.2.6 | |x| | | |1
    Reverse and reflect Source Route option      |3.2.2.8 |x| | | | |1
    Pass Timestamp Reply to higher layer         |3.2.2.8 |x| | | | |1
    Obey rules for "standard value"              |3.2.2.8 |x| | | | |1
                                                 |        | | | | | |
  ICMP Address Mask Request and Reply:           |        | | | | | |
    Addr Mask source configurable                |3.2.2.9 |x| | | | |
    Support static configuration of addr mask    |3.2.2.9 |x| | | | |
    Get addr mask dynamically during booting     |3.2.2.9 | | |x| | |
    Get addr via ICMP Addr Mask Request/Reply    |3.2.2.9 | | |x| | |
      Retransmit Addr Mask Req if no Reply       |3.2.2.9 |x| | | | |3
      Assume default mask if no Reply            |3.2.2.9 | |x| | | |3
      Update address mask from first Reply only  |3.2.2.9 |x| | | | |3
    Reasonableness check on Addr Mask            |3.2.2.9 | |x| | | |
    Send unauthorized Addr Mask Reply msgs       |3.2.2.9 | | | | |x|
      Explicitly configured to be agent          |3.2.2.9 |x| | | | |
    Static config=> Addr-Mask-Authoritative flag |3.2.2.9 | |x| | | |
      Broadcast Addr Mask Reply when init.       |3.2.2.9 |x| | | | |3
                                                 |        | | | | | |
ROUTING OUTBOUND DATAGRAMS:                      |        | | | | | |
  Use address mask in local/remote decision      |3.3.1.1 |x| | | | |
  Operate with no gateways on conn network       |3.3.1.1 |x| | | | |
  Maintain "route cache" of next-hop gateways    |3.3.1.2 |x| | | | |
  Treat Host and Net Redirect the same           |3.3.1.2 | |x| | | |
  If no cache entry, use default gateway         |3.3.1.2 |x| | | | |
    Support multiple default gateways            |3.3.1.2 |x| | | | |
  Provide table of static routes                 |3.3.1.2 | | |x| | |
    Flag: route overridable by Redirects         |3.3.1.2 | | |x| | |
  Key route cache on host, not net address       |3.3.1.3 | | |x| | |
  Include TOS in route cache                     |3.3.1.3 | |x| | | |
                                                 |        | | | | | |
  Able to detect failure of next-hop gateway     |3.3.1.4 |x| | | | |
  Assume route is good forever                   |3.3.1.4 | | | |x| |



Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 74]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


  Ping gateways continuously                     |3.3.1.4 | | | | |x|
  Ping only when traffic being sent              |3.3.1.4 |x| | | | |
  Ping only when no positive indication          |3.3.1.4 |x| | | | |
  Higher and lower layers give advice            |3.3.1.4 | |x| | | |
  Switch from failed default g'way to another    |3.3.1.5 |x| | | | |
  Manual method of entering config info          |3.3.1.6 |x| | | | |
                                                 |        | | | | | |
REASSEMBLY and FRAGMENTATION:                    |        | | | | | |
  Able to reassemble incoming datagrams          |3.3.2   |x| | | | |
    At least 576 byte datagrams                  |3.3.2   |x| | | | |
    EMTU_R configurable or indefinite            |3.3.2   | |x| | | |
  Transport layer able to learn MMS_R            |3.3.2   |x| | | | |
  Send ICMP Time Exceeded on reassembly timeout  |3.3.2   |x| | | | |
    Fixed reassembly timeout value               |3.3.2   | |x| | | |
                                                 |        | | | | | |
  Pass MMS_S to higher layers                    |3.3.3   |x| | | | |
  Local fragmentation of outgoing packets        |3.3.3   | | |x| | |
     Else don't send bigger than MMS_S           |3.3.3   |x| | | | |
  Send max 576 to off-net destination            |3.3.3   | |x| | | |
  All-Subnets-MTU configuration flag             |3.3.3   | | |x| | |
                                                 |        | | | | | |
MULTIHOMING:                                     |        | | | | | |
  Reply with same addr as spec-dest addr         |3.3.4.2 | |x| | | |
  Allow application to choose local IP addr      |3.3.4.2 |x| | | | |
  Silently discard d'gram in "wrong" interface   |3.3.4.2 | | |x| | |
  Only send d'gram through "right" interface     |3.3.4.2 | | |x| | |4
                                                 |        | | | | | |
SOURCE-ROUTE FORWARDING:                         |        | | | | | |
  Forward datagram with Source Route option      |3.3.5   | | |x| | |1
    Obey corresponding gateway rules             |3.3.5   |x| | | | |1
      Update TTL by gateway rules                |3.3.5   |x| | | | |1
      Able to generate ICMP err code 4, 5        |3.3.5   |x| | | | |1
      IP src addr not local host                 |3.3.5   | | |x| | |1
      Update Timestamp, Record Route options     |3.3.5   |x| | | | |1
    Configurable switch for non-local SRing      |3.3.5   |x| | | | |1
      Defaults to OFF                            |3.3.5   |x| | | | |1
    Satisfy gwy access rules for non-local SRing |3.3.5   |x| | | | |1
    If not forward, send Dest Unreach (cd 5)     |3.3.5   | |x| | | |2
                                                 |        | | | | | |
BROADCAST:                                       |        | | | | | |
  Broadcast addr as IP source addr               |3.2.1.3 | | | | |x|
  Receive 0 or -1 broadcast formats OK           |3.3.6   | |x| | | |
  Config'ble option to send 0 or -1 b'cast       |3.3.6   | | |x| | |
    Default to -1 broadcast                      |3.3.6   | |x| | | |
  Recognize all broadcast address formats        |3.3.6   |x| | | | |
  Use IP b'cast/m'cast addr in link-layer b'cast |3.3.6   |x| | | | |
  Silently discard link-layer-only b'cast dg's   |3.3.6   | |x| | | |
  Use Limited Broadcast addr for connected net   |3.3.6   | |x| | | |



Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 75]




RFC1122                      INTERNET LAYER                 October 1989


                                                 |        | | | | | |
MULTICAST:                                       |        | | | | | |
  Support local IP multicasting (RFC-1112)       |3.3.7   | |x| | | |
  Support IGMP (RFC-1112)                        |3.3.7   | | |x| | |
  Join all-hosts group at startup                |3.3.7   | |x| | | |
  Higher layers learn i'face m'cast capability   |3.3.7   | |x| | | |
                                                 |        | | | | | |
INTERFACE:                                       |        | | | | | |
  Allow transport layer to use all IP mechanisms |3.4     |x| | | | |
  Pass interface ident up to transport layer     |3.4     |x| | | | |
  Pass all IP options up to transport layer      |3.4     |x| | | | |
  Transport layer can send certain ICMP messages |3.4     |x| | | | |
  Pass spec'd ICMP messages up to transp. layer  |3.4     |x| | | | |
     Include IP hdr+8 octets or more from orig.  |3.4     |x| | | | |
  Able to leap tall buildings at a single bound  |3.5     | |x| | | |

Footnotes:

(1)  Only if feature is implemented.

(2)  This requirement is overruled if datagram is an ICMP error message.

(3)  Only if feature is implemented and is configured "on".

(4)  Unless has embedded gateway functionality or is source routed.


























Internet Engineering Task Force                                [Page 76]




RFC1122                  TRANSPORT LAYER -- UDP             October 1989


