2.6. End of session for TCP, UDP and others

   The end of a TCP session is detected when FIN is acknowledged by both
   halves of the session or when either half receives a segment with the
   RST bit in TCP flags field. However, because it is impossible for a
   NAT device to know whether the packets it sees will actually be
   delivered to the destination (they may be dropped between the NAT
   device and the destination), the NAT device cannot safely assume that
   the segments containing FINs or SYNs will be the last packets of the
   session (i.e., there could be retransmissions).  Consequently, a
   session can be assumed to have been terminated only after a period of



Srisuresh & Holdrege         Informational                      [Page 4]

RFC 2663           NAT Terminology and Considerations        August 1999


   4 minutes subsequent to this detection. The need for this extended
   wait period is described in RFC 793 [Ref 7], which suggests a TIME-
   WAIT duration of 2 * MSL (Maximum Segment Lifetime) or 4 minutes.

   Note that it is also possible for a TCP connection to terminate
   without the NAT device becoming aware of the event (e.g., in the case
   where one or both peers reboot). Consequently, garbage collection is
   necessary on NAT devices to clean up unused state about TCP sessions
   that no longer exist. However, it is not possible in the general case
   to distinguish between connections that have been idle for an
   extended period of time from those that no longer exist.  In the case
   of UDP-based sessions, there is no single way to determine when a
   session ends, since UDP-based protocols are application specific.

   Many heuristic approaches are used to terminate sessions. You can
   make the assumption that TCP sessions that have not been used for
   say, 24 hours, and non-TCP sessions that have not been used for a
   couple of minutes, are terminated. Often this assumption works, but
   sometimes it doesn't. These idle period session timeouts vary a great
   deal both from application to application and for different sessions
   of the same application. Consequently, session timeouts must be
   configurable. Even so, there is no guarantee that a satisfactory
   value can be found. Further, as stated in section 2.3, there is no
   guarantee that NAT's view of session termination will coincide with
   that of the application.

   Another way to handle session terminations is to timestamp entries
   and keep them as long as possible and retire the longest idle session
   when it becomes necessary.

