7.0. NAT operational characteristics

   NAT devices are application unaware in that the translations are
   limited to IP/TCP/UDP/ICMP headers and ICMP error messages only.  NAT
   devices do not change the payload of the packets, as payloads tend to
   be application specific.

   NAT devices (without the inclusion of ALGs) do not examine or modify
   transport payload. For this reason, NAT devices are transparent to
   applications in many cases. There are two areas, however, where NAT
   devices often cause difficulties: 1) when an application payload
   includes an IP address, and 2) when end-to-end security is needed.
   Note, this is not a comprehensive list.

   Application layer security techniques that do not make use of or
   depend on IP addresses will work correctly in the presence of NAT
   (e.g., TLS,  SSL and ssh). In contrast, transport layer techniques
   such as IPSec transport mode or the TCP MD5 Signature Option RFC 2385
   [Ref 17] do not.

   In IPSec transport mode, both AH and ESP have an integrity check
   covering the entire payload. When the payload is TCP or UDP, the
   TCP/UDP checksum is covered by the integrity check. When a NAT device
   modifies an address the checksum is no longer valid with respect to
   the new address. Normally, NAT also updates the checksum, but this is
   ineffective when AH and ESP are used.  Consequently, receivers will
   discard a packet either because it fails the IPSec integrity check
   (if the NAT device updates the checksum), or because the checksum is
   invalid (if the NAT device leaves the checksum unmodified).

   Note that IPsec tunnel mode ESP is permissible so long as the
   embedded packet contents are unaffected by the outer IP header
   translation. Although this technique does not work in traditional NAT
   deployments (i.e., where hosts are unaware that NATs are present),
   the technique is applicable to Realm-Specific IP as described in
   Section 5.0.

   Note also that end-to-end ESP based transport mode authentication and
   confidentiality are permissible for packets such as ICMP, whose IP
   payload content is unaffected by the outer IP header translation.

   NAT devices also break fundamental assumptions by public key
   distribution infrastructures such as Secure DNS RFC 2535 [Ref 18] and
   X.509 certificates with signed public keys. In the case of Secure







Srisuresh & Holdrege         Informational                     [Page 23]

RFC 2663           NAT Terminology and Considerations        August 1999


   DNS, each DNS RRset is signed with a key from within the zone.
   Moreover, the authenticity of a specific key is verified by following
   a chain of trust that goes all the way to the DNS root.  When a DNS-
   ALG modifies addresses (e.g., as in the case of Twice-NAT),
   verification of signatures fails.

   It may be of interest to note that IKE (Session key negotiation
   protocol) is a UDP based session layer protocol and is not protected
   by network based IPsec security. Only a portion of the individual
   payloads within IKE are protected. As a result, IKE sessions are
   permissible across NAT, so long as IKE payload does not contain
   addresses and/or transport IDs specific to one realm and not the
   other. Given that IKE is used to setup IPSec associations, and there
   are at present no known ways of making IPSec work through a NAT
   function, it is a future work item to take advantage of IKE through a
   NAT box.

   One of the most popular internet applications "FTP" would not work
   with the definition of NAT as described. The following sub-section is
   devoted to describing how FTP is supported on NAT devices.  FTP ALG
   is an integral part of most NAT implementations. Some vendors may
   choose to include additional ALGs to custom support other
   applications on the NAT device.

