3.2 Fast Retransmit/Fast Recovery

   A TCP receiver SHOULD send an immediate duplicate ACK when an out-
   of-order segment arrives.  The purpose of this ACK is to inform the
   sender that a segment was received out-of-order and which sequence
   number is expected.  From the sender's perspective, duplicate ACKs
   can be caused by a number of network problems.  First, they can be
   caused by dropped segments.  In this case, all segments after the
   dropped segment will trigger duplicate ACKs.  Second, duplicate ACKs
   can be caused by the re-ordering of data segments by the network (not
   a rare event along some network paths [Pax97]).  Finally, duplicate
   ACKs can be caused by replication of ACK or data segments by the
   network.  In addition, a TCP receiver SHOULD send an immediate ACK
   when the incoming segment fills in all or part of a gap in the
   sequence space.  This will generate more timely information for a
   sender recovering from a loss through a retransmission timeout, a
   fast retransmit, or an experimental loss recovery algorithm, such as
   NewReno [FH98].

   The TCP sender SHOULD use the "fast retransmit" algorithm to detect
   and repair loss, based on incoming duplicate ACKs.  The fast
   retransmit algorithm uses the arrival of 3 duplicate ACKs (4
   identical ACKs without the arrival of any other intervening packets)
   as an indication that a segment has been lost.  After receiving 3
   duplicate ACKs, TCP performs a retransmission of what appears to be
   the missing segment, without waiting for the retransmission timer to
   expire.

   After the fast retransmit algorithm sends what appears to be the
   missing segment, the "fast recovery" algorithm governs the
   transmission of new data until a non-duplicate ACK arrives.  The
   reason for not performing slow start is that the receipt of the
   duplicate ACKs not only indicates that a segment has been lost, but
   also that segments are most likely leaving the network (although a
   massive segment duplication by the network can invalidate this
   conclusion).  In other words, since the receiver can only generate a
   duplicate ACK when a segment has arrived, that segment has left the
   network and is in the receiver's buffer, so we know it is no longer
   consuming network resources.  Furthermore, since the ACK "clock"
   [Jac88] is preserved, the TCP sender can continue to transmit new
   segments (although transmission must continue using a reduced cwnd).

   The fast retransmit and fast recovery algorithms are usually
   implemented together as follows.

   1.  When the third duplicate ACK is received, set ssthresh to no more
       than the value given in equation 3.




Allman, et. al.             Standards Track                     [Page 6]

RFC 2581                 TCP Congestion Control               April 1999


   2.  Retransmit the lost segment and set cwnd to ssthresh plus 3*SMSS.
       This artificially "inflates" the congestion window by the number
       of segments (three) that have left the network and which the
       receiver has buffered.

   3.  For each additional duplicate ACK received, increment cwnd by
       SMSS.  This artificially inflates the congestion window in order
       to reflect the additional segment that has left the network.

   4.  Transmit a segment, if allowed by the new value of cwnd and the
       receiver's advertised window.

   5.  When the next ACK arrives that acknowledges new data, set cwnd to
       ssthresh (the value set in step 1).  This is termed "deflating"
       the window.

       This ACK should be the acknowledgment elicited by the
       retransmission from step 1, one RTT after the retransmission
       (though it may arrive sooner in the presence of significant out-
       of-order delivery of data segments at the receiver).
       Additionally, this ACK should acknowledge all the intermediate
       segments sent between the lost segment and the receipt of the
       third duplicate ACK, if none of these were lost.

   Note: This algorithm is known to generally not recover very
   efficiently from multiple losses in a single flight of packets
   [FF96].  One proposed set of modifications to address this problem
   can be found in [FH98].

