4.1 Re-starting Idle Connections

   A known problem with the TCP congestion control algorithms described
   above is that they allow a potentially inappropriate burst of traffic
   to be transmitted after TCP has been idle for a relatively long
   period of time.  After an idle period, TCP cannot use the ACK clock
   to strobe new segments into the network, as all the ACKs have drained
   from the network.  Therefore, as specified above, TCP can potentially
   send a cwnd-size line-rate burst into the network after an idle
   period.

   [Jac88] recommends that a TCP use slow start to restart transmission
   after a relatively long idle period.  Slow start serves to restart
   the ACK clock, just as it does at the beginning of a transfer.  This
   mechanism has been widely deployed in the following manner.  When TCP
   has not received a segment for more than one retransmission timeout,
   cwnd is reduced to the value of the restart window (RW) before



Allman, et. al.             Standards Track                     [Page 7]

RFC 2581                 TCP Congestion Control               April 1999


   transmission begins.

   For the purposes of this standard, we define RW = IW.

   We note that the non-standard experimental extension to TCP defined
   in [AFP98] defines RW = min(IW, cwnd), with the definition of IW
   adjusted per equation (1) above.

   Using the last time a segment was received to determine whether or
   not to decrease cwnd fails to deflate cwnd in the common case of
   persistent HTTP connections [HTH98].  In this case, a WWW server
   receives a request before transmitting data to the WWW browser.  The
   reception of the request makes the test for an idle connection fail,
   and allows the TCP to begin transmission with a possibly
   inappropriately large cwnd.

   Therefore, a TCP SHOULD set cwnd to no more than RW before beginning
   transmission if the TCP has not sent data in an interval exceeding
   the retransmission timeout.

