3.1 Slow Start and Congestion Avoidance

   The slow start and congestion avoidance algorithms MUST be used by a
   TCP sender to control the amount of outstanding data being injected
   into the network.  To implement these algorithms, two variables are
   added to the TCP per-connection state.  The congestion window (cwnd)
   is a sender-side limit on the amount of data the sender can transmit
   into the network before receiving an acknowledgment (ACK), while the
   receiver's advertised window (rwnd) is a receiver-side limit on the
   amount of outstanding data.  The minimum of cwnd and rwnd governs
   data transmission.

   Another state variable, the slow start threshold (ssthresh), is used
   to determine whether the slow start or congestion avoidance algorithm
   is used to control data transmission, as discussed below.

   Beginning transmission into a network with unknown conditions
   requires TCP to slowly probe the network to determine the available
   capacity, in order to avoid congesting the network with an
   inappropriately large burst of data.  The slow start algorithm is
   used for this purpose at the beginning of a transfer, or after
   repairing loss detected by the retransmission timer.






Allman, et. al.             Standards Track                     [Page 3]

RFC 2581                 TCP Congestion Control               April 1999


   IW, the initial value of cwnd, MUST be less than or equal to 2*SMSS
   bytes and MUST NOT be more than 2 segments.

   We note that a non-standard, experimental TCP extension allows that a
   TCP MAY use a larger initial window (IW), as defined in equation 1
   [AFP98]:

      IW = min (4*SMSS, max (2*SMSS, 4380 bytes))           (1)

   With this extension, a TCP sender MAY use a 3 or 4 segment initial
   window, provided the combined size of the segments does not exceed
   4380 bytes.  We do NOT allow this change as part of the standard
   defined by this document.  However, we include discussion of (1) in
   the remainder of this document as a guideline for those experimenting
   with the change, rather than conforming to the present standards for
   TCP congestion control.

   The initial value of ssthresh MAY be arbitrarily high (for example,
   some implementations use the size of the advertised window), but it
   may be reduced in response to congestion.  The slow start algorithm
   is used when cwnd < ssthresh, while the congestion avoidance
   algorithm is used when cwnd > ssthresh.  When cwnd and ssthresh are
   equal the sender may use either slow start or congestion avoidance.

   During slow start, a TCP increments cwnd by at most SMSS bytes for
   each ACK received that acknowledges new data.  Slow start ends when
   cwnd exceeds ssthresh (or, optionally, when it reaches it, as noted
   above) or when congestion is observed.

   During congestion avoidance, cwnd is incremented by 1 full-sized
   segment per round-trip time (RTT).  Congestion avoidance continues
   until congestion is detected.  One formula commonly used to update
   cwnd during congestion avoidance is given in equation 2:

      cwnd += SMSS*SMSS/cwnd                     (2)

   This adjustment is executed on every incoming non-duplicate ACK.
   Equation (2) provides an acceptable approximation to the underlying
   principle of increasing cwnd by 1 full-sized segment per RTT.  (Note
   that for a connection in which the receiver acknowledges every data
   segment, (2) proves slightly more aggressive than 1 segment per RTT,
   and for a receiver acknowledging every-other packet, (2) is less
   aggressive.)








Allman, et. al.             Standards Track                     [Page 4]

RFC 2581                 TCP Congestion Control               April 1999


   Implementation Note: Since integer arithmetic is usually used in TCP
   implementations, the formula given in equation 2 can fail to increase
   cwnd when the congestion window is very large (larger than
   SMSS*SMSS).  If the above formula yields 0, the result SHOULD be
   rounded up to 1 byte.

   Implementation Note: older implementations have an additional
   additive constant on the right-hand side of equation (2).  This is
   incorrect and can actually lead to diminished performance [PAD+98].

   Another acceptable way to increase cwnd during congestion avoidance
   is to count the number of bytes that have been acknowledged by ACKs
   for new data.  (A drawback of this implementation is that it requires
   maintaining an additional state variable.)  When the number of bytes
   acknowledged reaches cwnd, then cwnd can be incremented by up to SMSS
   bytes.  Note that during congestion avoidance, cwnd MUST NOT be
   increased by more than the larger of either 1 full-sized segment per
   RTT, or the value computed using equation 2.

   Implementation Note: some implementations maintain cwnd in units of
   bytes, while others in units of full-sized segments.  The latter will
   find equation (2) difficult to use, and may prefer to use the
   counting approach discussed in the previous paragraph.

   When a TCP sender detects segment loss using the retransmission
   timer, the value of ssthresh MUST be set to no more than the value
   given in equation 3:

      ssthresh = max (FlightSize / 2, 2*SMSS)            (3)

   As discussed above, FlightSize is the amount of outstanding data in
   the network.

   Implementation Note: an easy mistake to make is to simply use cwnd,
   rather than FlightSize, which in some implementations may
   incidentally increase well beyond rwnd.

   Furthermore, upon a timeout cwnd MUST be set to no more than the loss
   window, LW, which equals 1 full-sized segment (regardless of the
   value of IW).  Therefore, after retransmitting the dropped segment
   the TCP sender uses the slow start algorithm to increase the window
   from 1 full-sized segment to the new value of ssthresh, at which
   point congestion avoidance again takes over.








Allman, et. al.             Standards Track                     [Page 5]

RFC 2581                 TCP Congestion Control               April 1999


