4.2 Generating Acknowledgments

   The delayed ACK algorithm specified in [Bra89] SHOULD be used by a
   TCP receiver.  When used, a TCP receiver MUST NOT excessively delay
   acknowledgments.  Specifically, an ACK SHOULD be generated for at
   least every second full-sized segment, and MUST be generated within
   500 ms of the arrival of the first unacknowledged packet.

   The requirement that an ACK "SHOULD" be generated for at least every
   second full-sized segment is listed in [Bra89] in one place as a
   SHOULD and another as a MUST.  Here we unambiguously state it is a
   SHOULD.  We also emphasize that this is a SHOULD, meaning that an
   implementor should indeed only deviate from this requirement after
   careful consideration of the implications.  See the discussion of
   "Stretch ACK violation" in [PAD+98] and the references therein for a
   discussion of the possible performance problems with generating ACKs
   less frequently than every second full-sized segment.

   In some cases, the sender and receiver may not agree on what
   constitutes a full-sized segment.  An implementation is deemed to
   comply with this requirement if it sends at least one acknowledgment
   every time it receives 2*RMSS bytes of new data from the sender,
   where RMSS is the Maximum Segment Size specified by the receiver to
   the sender (or the default value of 536 bytes, per [Bra89], if the
   receiver does not specify an MSS option during connection
   establishment).  The sender may be forced to use a segment size less
   than RMSS due to the maximum transmission unit (MTU), the path MTU
   discovery algorithm or other factors.  For instance, consider the



Allman, et. al.             Standards Track                     [Page 8]

RFC 2581                 TCP Congestion Control               April 1999


   case when the receiver announces an RMSS of X bytes but the sender
   ends up using a segment size of Y bytes (Y < X) due to path MTU
   discovery (or the sender's MTU size).  The receiver will generate
   stretch ACKs if it waits for 2*X bytes to arrive before an ACK is
   sent.  Clearly this will take more than 2 segments of size Y bytes.
   Therefore, while a specific algorithm is not defined, it is desirable
   for receivers to attempt to prevent this situation, for example by
   acknowledging at least every second segment, regardless of size.
   Finally, we repeat that an ACK MUST NOT be delayed for more than 500
   ms waiting on a second full-sized segment to arrive.

   Out-of-order data segments SHOULD be acknowledged immediately, in
   order to accelerate loss recovery.  To trigger the fast retransmit
   algorithm, the receiver SHOULD send an immediate duplicate ACK when
   it receives a data segment above a gap in the sequence space.  To
   provide feedback to senders recovering from losses, the receiver
   SHOULD send an immediate ACK when it receives a data segment that
   fills in all or part of a gap in the sequence space.

   A TCP receiver MUST NOT generate more than one ACK for every incoming
   segment, other than to update the offered window as the receiving
   application consumes new data [page 42, Pos81][Cla82].

