MONITOR MODE
       Usage: mdadm --monitor options... devices...

       This  usage  causes  mdadm  to  periodically  poll  a number of md arrays and to report on any events noticed.  mdadm will never exit once it decides that there are arrays to be
       checked, so it should normally be run in the background.

       As well as reporting events, mdadm may move a spare drive from one array to another if they are in the same spare-group or domain and if the destination array has a failed drive
       but no spares.

       If  any  devices  are  listed  on the command line, mdadm will only monitor those devices.  Otherwise all arrays listed in the configuration file will be monitored.  Further, if
       --scan is given, then any other md devices that appear in /proc/mdstat will also be monitored.

       The result of monitoring the arrays is the generation of events.  These events are passed to a separate program (if specified) and may be mailed to a given E-mail address.

       When passing events to a program, the program is run once for each event, and is given 2 or 3 command-line arguments: the first is the name of the event (see below), the  second
       is the name of the md device which is affected, and the third is the name of a related device if relevant (such as a component device that has failed).

       If  --scan is given, then a program or an E-mail address must be specified on the command line or in the config file.  If neither are available, then mdadm will not monitor any-
       thing.  Without --scan, mdadm will continue monitoring as long as something was found to monitor.  If no program or email is given, then each event is reported to stdout.

       The different events are:

           DeviceDisappeared
                  An md array which previously was configured appears to no longer be configured. (syslog priority: Critical)

                  If mdadm was told to monitor an array which is RAID0 or Linear, then it will report DeviceDisappeared with the extra information Wrong-Level.  This is  because  RAID0
                  and Linear do not support the device-failed, hot-spare and resync operations which are monitored.

           RebuildStarted
                  An md array started reconstruction (e.g. recovery, resync, reshape, check, repair). (syslog priority: Warning)

           RebuildNN
                  Where  NN  is  a  two-digit  number (ie. 05, 48). This indicates that rebuild has passed that many percent of the total. The events are generated with fixed increment
                  since 0. Increment size may be specified with a commandline option (default is 20). (syslog priority: Warning)

           RebuildFinished
                  An md array that was rebuilding, isn't any more, either because it finished normally or was aborted. (syslog priority: Warning)

           Fail   An active component device of an array has been marked as faulty. (syslog priority: Critical)

           FailSpare
                  A spare component device which was being rebuilt to replace a faulty device has failed. (syslog priority: Critical)

           SpareActive
                  A spare component device which was being rebuilt to replace a faulty device has been successfully rebuilt and has been made active.  (syslog priority: Info)

           NewArray
                  A new md array has been detected in the /proc/mdstat file.  (syslog priority: Info)

           DegradedArray
                  A newly noticed array appears to be degraded.  This message is not generated when mdadm notices a drive failure which causes degradation, but only when mdadm  notices
                  that an array is degraded when it first sees the array.  (syslog priority: Critical)

           MoveSpare
                  A spare drive has been moved from one array in a spare-group or domain to another to allow a failed drive to be replaced.  (syslog priority: Info)

           SparesMissing
                  If mdadm has been told, via the config file, that an array should have a certain number of spare devices, and mdadm detects that it has fewer than this number when it
                  first sees the array, it will report a SparesMissing message.  (syslog priority: Warning)

           TestMessage
                  An array was found at startup, and the --test flag was given.  (syslog priority: Info)

       Only Fail, FailSpare, DegradedArray, SparesMissing and TestMessage cause Email to be sent.  All events cause the program to be run.  The program is run with two or  three  argu-
       ments: the event name, the array device and possibly a second device.

       Each  event  has  an associated array device (e.g.  /dev/md1) and possibly a second device.  For Fail, FailSpare, and SpareActive the second device is the relevant component de-
       vice.  For MoveSpare the second device is the array that the spare was moved from.

       For mdadm to move spares from one array to another, the different arrays need to be labeled with the same spare-group or the spares must be allowed to migrate  through  matching
       POLICY domains in the configuration file.  The spare-group name can be any string; it is only necessary that different spare groups use different names.

       When mdadm detects that an array in a spare group has fewer active devices than necessary for the complete array, and has no spare devices, it will look for another array in the
       same spare group that has a full complement of working drive and a spare.  It will then attempt to remove the spare from the second drive and add it to the first.   If  the  re-
       moval succeeds but the adding fails, then it is added back to the original array.

       If  the spare group for a degraded array is not defined, mdadm will look at the rules of spare migration specified by POLICY lines in mdadm.conf and then follow similar steps as
       above if a matching spare is found.

