3.7.1. Standard queries

A standard query specifies a target domain name (QNAME), query type
(QTYPE), and query class (QCLASS) and asks for RRs which match.  This
type of query makes up such a vast majority of DNS queries that we use
the term "query" to mean standard query unless otherwise specified.  The
QTYPE and QCLASS fields are each 16 bits long, and are a superset of
defined types and classes.





Mockapetris                                                    [Page 16]

RFC 1034             Domain Concepts and Facilities        November 1987


The QTYPE field may contain:

<any type>      matches just that type. (e.g., A, PTR).

AXFR            special zone transfer QTYPE.

MAILB           matches all mail box related RRs (e.g. MB and MG).

*               matches all RR types.

The QCLASS field may contain:

<any class>     matches just that class (e.g., IN, CH).

*               matches aLL RR classes.

Using the query domain name, QTYPE, and QCLASS, the name server looks
for matching RRs.  In addition to relevant records, the name server may
return RRs that point toward a name server that has the desired
information or RRs that are expected to be useful in interpreting the
relevant RRs.  For example, a name server that doesn't have the
requested information may know a name server that does; a name server
that returns a domain name in a relevant RR may also return the RR that
binds that domain name to an address.

For example, a mailer tying to send mail to Mockapetris@ISI.EDU might
ask the resolver for mail information about ISI.EDU, resulting in a
query for QNAME=ISI.EDU, QTYPE=MX, QCLASS=IN.  The response's answer
section would be:

    ISI.EDU.        MX      10 VENERA.ISI.EDU.
                    MX      10 VAXA.ISI.EDU.

while the additional section might be:

    VAXA.ISI.EDU.   A       10.2.0.27
                    A       128.9.0.33
    VENERA.ISI.EDU. A       10.1.0.52
                    A       128.9.0.32

Because the server assumes that if the requester wants mail exchange
information, it will probably want the addresses of the mail exchanges
soon afterward.

Note that the QCLASS=* construct requires special interpretation
regarding authority.  Since a particular name server may not know all of
the classes available in the domain system, it can never know if it is
authoritative for all classes.  Hence responses to QCLASS=* queries can



Mockapetris                                                    [Page 17]

RFC 1034             Domain Concepts and Facilities        November 1987


never be authoritative.

