4.2. How the database is divided into zones

The domain database is partitioned in two ways: by class, and by "cuts"
made in the name space between nodes.

The class partition is simple.  The database for any class is organized,
delegated, and maintained separately from all other classes.  Since, by
convention, the name spaces are the same for all classes, the separate
classes can be thought of as an array of parallel namespace trees.  Note
that the data attached to nodes will be different for these different
parallel classes.  The most common reasons for creating a new class are
the necessity for a new data format for existing types or a desire for a
separately managed version of the existing name space.

Within a class, "cuts" in the name space can be made between any two
adjacent nodes.  After all cuts are made, each group of connected name
space is a separate zone.  The zone is said to be authoritative for all
names in the connected region.  Note that the "cuts" in the name space
may be in different places for different classes, the name servers may
be different, etc.

These rules mean that every zone has at least one node, and hence domain
name, for which it is authoritative, and all of the nodes in a
particular zone are connected.  Given, the tree structure, every zone
has a highest node which is closer to the root than any other node in
the zone.  The name of this node is often used to identify the zone.

It would be possible, though not particularly useful, to partition the
name space so that each domain name was in a separate zone or so that
all nodes were in a single zone.  Instead, the database is partitioned
at points where a particular organization wants to take over control of



Mockapetris                                                    [Page 19]

RFC 1034             Domain Concepts and Facilities        November 1987


a subtree.  Once an organization controls its own zone it can
unilaterally change the data in the zone, grow new tree sections
connected to the zone, delete existing nodes, or delegate new subzones
under its zone.

If the organization has substructure, it may want to make further
internal partitions to achieve nested delegations of name space control.
In some cases, such divisions are made purely to make database
maintenance more convenient.

