4.2.1. Technical considerations

The data that describes a zone has four major parts:

   - Authoritative data for all nodes within the zone.

   - Data that defines the top node of the zone (can be thought of
     as part of the authoritative data).

   - Data that describes delegated subzones, i.e., cuts around the
     bottom of the zone.

   - Data that allows access to name servers for subzones
     (sometimes called "glue" data).

All of this data is expressed in the form of RRs, so a zone can be
completely described in terms of a set of RRs.  Whole zones can be
transferred between name servers by transferring the RRs, either carried
in a series of messages or by FTPing a master file which is a textual
representation.

The authoritative data for a zone is simply all of the RRs attached to
all of the nodes from the top node of the zone down to leaf nodes or
nodes above cuts around the bottom edge of the zone.

Though logically part of the authoritative data, the RRs that describe
the top node of the zone are especially important to the zone's
management.  These RRs are of two types: name server RRs that list, one
per RR, all of the servers for the zone, and a single SOA RR that
describes zone management parameters.

The RRs that describe cuts around the bottom of the zone are NS RRs that
name the servers for the subzones.  Since the cuts are between nodes,
these RRs are NOT part of the authoritative data of the zone, and should
be exactly the same as the corresponding RRs in the top node of the
subzone.  Since name servers are always associated with zone boundaries,
NS RRs are only found at nodes which are the top node of some zone.  In
the data that makes up a zone, NS RRs are found at the top node of the



Mockapetris                                                    [Page 20]

RFC 1034             Domain Concepts and Facilities        November 1987


zone (and are authoritative) and at cuts around the bottom of the zone
(where they are not authoritative), but never in between.

One of the goals of the zone structure is that any zone have all the
data required to set up communications with the name servers for any
subzones.  That is, parent zones have all the information needed to
access servers for their children zones.  The NS RRs that name the
servers for subzones are often not enough for this task since they name
the servers, but do not give their addresses.  In particular, if the
name of the name server is itself in the subzone, we could be faced with
the situation where the NS RRs tell us that in order to learn a name
server's address, we should contact the server using the address we wish
to learn.  To fix this problem, a zone contains "glue" RRs which are not
part of the authoritative data, and are address RRs for the servers.
These RRs are only necessary if the name server's name is "below" the
cut, and are only used as part of a referral response.

