4.3.3. Wildcards

In the previous algorithm, special treatment was given to RRs with owner
names starting with the label "*".  Such RRs are called wildcards.
Wildcard RRs can be thought of as instructions for synthesizing RRs.
When the appropriate conditions are met, the name server creates RRs
with an owner name equal to the query name and contents taken from the
wildcard RRs.

This facility is most often used to create a zone which will be used to
forward mail from the Internet to some other mail system.  The general
idea is that any name in that zone which is presented to server in a
query will be assumed to exist, with certain properties, unless explicit
evidence exists to the contrary.  Note that the use of the term zone
here, instead of domain, is intentional; such defaults do not propagate
across zone boundaries, although a subzone may choose to achieve that
appearance by setting up similar defaults.

The contents of the wildcard RRs follows the usual rules and formats for
RRs.  The wildcards in the zone have an owner name that controls the
query names they will match.  The owner name of the wildcard RRs is of
the form "*.<anydomain>", where <anydomain> is any domain name.
<anydomain> should not contain other * labels, and should be in the
authoritative data of the zone.  The wildcards potentially apply to
descendants of <anydomain>, but not to <anydomain> itself.  Another way



Mockapetris                                                    [Page 25]

RFC 1034             Domain Concepts and Facilities        November 1987


to look at this is that the "*" label always matches at least one whole
label and sometimes more, but always whole labels.

Wildcard RRs do not apply:

   - When the query is in another zone.  That is, delegation cancels
     the wildcard defaults.

   - When the query name or a name between the wildcard domain and
     the query name is know to exist.  For example, if a wildcard
     RR has an owner name of "*.X", and the zone also contains RRs
     attached to B.X, the wildcards would apply to queries for name
     Z.X (presuming there is no explicit information for Z.X), but
     not to B.X, A.B.X, or X.

A * label appearing in a query name has no special effect, but can be
used to test for wildcards in an authoritative zone; such a query is the
only way to get a response containing RRs with an owner name with * in
it.  The result of such a query should not be cached.

Note that the contents of the wildcard RRs are not modified when used to
synthesize RRs.

To illustrate the use of wildcard RRs, suppose a large company with a
large, non-IP/TCP, network wanted to create a mail gateway.  If the
company was called X.COM, and IP/TCP capable gateway machine was called
A.X.COM, the following RRs might be entered into the COM zone:

    X.COM           MX      10      A.X.COM

    *.X.COM         MX      10      A.X.COM

    A.X.COM         A       1.2.3.4
    A.X.COM         MX      10      A.X.COM

    *.A.X.COM       MX      10      A.X.COM

This would cause any MX query for any domain name ending in X.COM to
return an MX RR pointing at A.X.COM.  Two wildcard RRs are required
since the effect of the wildcard at *.X.COM is inhibited in the A.X.COM
subtree by the explicit data for A.X.COM.  Note also that the explicit
MX data at X.COM and A.X.COM is required, and that none of the RRs above
would match a query name of XX.COM.

