5.2.1. Typical functions

The client interface to the resolver is influenced by the local host's
conventions, but the typical resolver-client interface has three
functions:

   1. Host name to host address translation.

      This function is often defined to mimic a previous HOSTS.TXT



Mockapetris                                                    [Page 29]

RFC 1034             Domain Concepts and Facilities        November 1987


      based function.  Given a character string, the caller wants
      one or more 32 bit IP addresses.  Under the DNS, it
      translates into a request for type A RRs.  Since the DNS does
      not preserve the order of RRs, this function may choose to
      sort the returned addresses or select the "best" address if
      the service returns only one choice to the client.  Note that
      a multiple address return is recommended, but a single
      address may be the only way to emulate prior HOSTS.TXT
      services.

   2. Host address to host name translation

      This function will often follow the form of previous
      functions.  Given a 32 bit IP address, the caller wants a
      character string.  The octets of the IP address are reversed,
      used as name components, and suffixed with "IN-ADDR.ARPA".  A
      type PTR query is used to get the RR with the primary name of
      the host.  For example, a request for the host name
      corresponding to IP address 1.2.3.4 looks for PTR RRs for
      domain name "4.3.2.1.IN-ADDR.ARPA".

   3. General lookup function

      This function retrieves arbitrary information from the DNS,
      and has no counterpart in previous systems.  The caller
      supplies a QNAME, QTYPE, and QCLASS, and wants all of the
      matching RRs.  This function will often use the DNS format
      for all RR data instead of the local host's, and returns all
      RR content (e.g., TTL) instead of a processed form with local
      quoting conventions.

When the resolver performs the indicated function, it usually has one of
the following results to pass back to the client:

   - One or more RRs giving the requested data.

     In this case the resolver returns the answer in the
     appropriate format.

   - A name error (NE).

     This happens when the referenced name does not exist.  For
     example, a user may have mistyped a host name.

   - A data not found error.

     This happens when the referenced name exists, but data of the
     appropriate type does not.  For example, a host address



Mockapetris                                                    [Page 30]

RFC 1034             Domain Concepts and Facilities        November 1987


     function applied to a mailbox name would return this error
     since the name exists, but no address RR is present.

It is important to note that the functions for translating between host
names and addresses may combine the "name error" and "data not found"
error conditions into a single type of error return, but the general
function should not.  One reason for this is that applications may ask
first for one type of information about a name followed by a second
request to the same name for some other type of information; if the two
errors are combined, then useless queries may slow the application.

