4. INTERACTIVE Commands
       Listed  below is a brief index of commands within categories.  Some commands appear more than once  --  their meaning or scope may vary depending on the context in which they are
       issued.

         4a. Global-Commands
               <Ent/Sp> ?, =, 0,
               A, B, d, E, e, g, h, H, I, k, q, r, s, W, X, Y, Z
         4b. Summary-Area-Commands
               C, l, t, m, 1, 2, 3
         4c. Task-Area-Commands
               Appearance:  b, J, j, x, y, z
               Content:     c, f, F, o, O, S, u, U, V
               Size:        #, i, n
               Sorting:     <, >, f, F, R
         4d. Color-Mapping
               <Ret>, a, B, b, H, M, q, S, T, w, z, 0 - 7
         5b. Commands-for-Windows
               -, _, =, +, A, a, g, G, w
         5c. Scrolling-a-Window
               C, Up, Dn, Left, Right, PgUp, PgDn, Home, End
         5d. Searching-in-a-Window
               L, &

   4a. GLOBAL Commands
       The global interactive commands are always available in both full-screen mode and alternate-display mode.  However, some of these interactive commands are not available when run-
       ning in Secure mode.

       If you wish to know in advance whether or not your top has been secured, simply ask for help and view the system summary on the second line.

         <Enter> or <Space>  :Refresh-Display
              These  commands  awaken  top  and  following receipt of any input the entire display will be repainted.  They also force an update of any hotplugged cpu or physical memory
              changes.

              Use either of these keys if you have a large delay interval and wish to see current status,

          ? | h  :Help
              There are two help levels available.  The first will provide a reminder of all the basic interactive commands.  If top is secured, that screen will be abbreviated.

              Typing `h' or `?' on that help screen will take you to help for those interactive commands applicable to alternate-display mode.

          =  :Exit-Task-Limits
              Removes restrictions on which tasks are shown.  This command will reverse any `i' (idle tasks) and `n' (max tasks) commands that might be active.  It also provides for  an
              exit  from  PID  monitoring,  User  filtering,  Other filtering and Locate processing.  See the `-p' command-line option for a discussion of PID monitoring, the `U' or `u'
              interactive commands for User filtering the `O' or `o' interactive commands for Other filtering and `L' or `&' interactive commands for Locate processing.

              Additionally, any window that has been scrolled will be reset with this command.  See topic 5c. SCROLLING a Window for additional information regarding vertical and  hori-
              zontal scrolling.

              When operating in alternate-display mode this command has a broader meaning.

          0  :Zero-Suppress toggle
              This command determines whether zeros are shown or suppressed for many of the fields in a task window.  Fields like UID, GID, NI, PR or P are not affected by this toggle.

          A  :Alternate-Display-Mode toggle
              This  command  will switch between full-screen mode and alternate-display mode.  See topic 5. ALTERNATE-DISPLAY Provisions and the `g' interactive command for insight into
              `current' windows and field groups.

          B  :Bold-Disable/Enable toggle
              This command will influence use of the bold terminfo capability and alters both the summary area and task area for the `current' window.  While it  is  intended  primarily
              for use with dumb terminals, it can be applied anytime.

              Note:  When  this  toggle  is On and top is operating in monochrome mode, the entire display will appear as normal text.  Thus, unless the `x' and/or `y' toggles are using
              reverse for emphasis, there will be no visual confirmation that they are even on.

       *  d | s  :Change-Delay-Time-interval
              You will be prompted to enter the delay time, in seconds, between display updates.

              Fractional seconds are honored, but a negative number is not allowed.  Entering 0 causes (nearly) continuous updates, with an unsatisfactory display as the system and  tty
              driver try to keep up with top's demands.  The delay value is inversely proportional to system loading, so set it with care.

              If at any time you wish to know the current delay time, simply ask for help and view the system summary on the second line.

          E  :Extend-Memory-Scale in Summary Area
              With  this  command  you  can  cycle  through  the  available  summary  area  memory  scaling  which  ranges  from KiB (kibibytes or 1,024 bytes) through EiB (exbibytes or
              1,152,921,504,606,846,976 bytes).

              If you see a `+' between a displayed number and the following label, it means that top was forced to truncate some portion of that number.  By raising the scaling  factor,
              such truncation can be avoided.

          e  :Extend-Memory-Scale in Task Windows
              With  this  command  you  can  cycle  through  the  available  task  window  memory  scaling  which  ranges  from  KiB (kibibytes or 1,024 bytes) through PiB (pebibytes or
              1,125,899,906,842,624 bytes).

              While top will try to honor the selected target range, additional scaling might still be necessary in order to accommodate current values.  If you wish to see a more homo-
              geneous  result  in the memory columns, raising the scaling range will usually accomplish that goal.  Raising it too high, however, is likely to produce an all zero result
              which cannot be suppressed with the `0' interactive command.

          g  :Choose-Another-Window/Field-Group
              You will be prompted to enter a number between 1 and 4 designating the field group which should be made the `current' window.  You will soon grow comfortable with these  4
              windows, especially after experimenting with alternate-display mode.

          H  :Threads-mode toggle
              When  this  toggle  is  On, individual threads will be displayed for all processes in all visible task windows.  Otherwise, top displays a summation of all threads in each
              process.

          I  :Irix/Solaris-Mode toggle
              When operating in Solaris mode (`I' toggled Off), a task's cpu usage will be divided by the total number of CPUs.  After issuing this command, you'll be told the new state
              of this toggle.

       *  k  :Kill-a-task
              You will be prompted for a PID and then the signal to send.

              Entering no PID or a negative number will be interpreted as the default shown in the prompt (the first task displayed).  A PID value of zero means the top program itself.

              The default signal, as reflected in the prompt, is SIGTERM.  However, you can send any signal, via number or name.

              If you wish to abort the kill process, do one of the following depending on your progress:
                  1) at the pid prompt, type an invalid number
                  2) at the signal prompt, type 0 (or any invalid signal)
                  3) at any prompt, type <Esc>

          q  :Quit

       *  r  :Renice-a-Task
              You will be prompted for a PID and then the value to nice it to.

              Entering no PID or a negative number will be interpreted as the default shown in the prompt (the first task displayed).  A PID value of zero means the top program itself.

              A  positive nice value will cause a process to lose priority.  Conversely, a negative nice value will cause a process to be viewed more favorably by the kernel.  As a gen-
              eral rule, ordinary users can only increase the nice value and are prevented from lowering it.

              If you wish to abort the renice process, do one of the following depending on your progress:
                  1) at the pid prompt, type an invalid number
                  2) at the nice prompt, type <Enter> with no input
                  3) at any prompt, type <Esc>

          W  :Write-the-Configuration-File
              This will save all of your options and toggles plus the current display mode and delay time.  By issuing this command just before quitting top, you will  be  able  restart
              later in exactly that same state.

          X  :Extra-Fixed-Width
              Some fields are fixed width and not scalable.  As such, they are subject to truncation which would be indicated by a `+' in the last position.

              This interactive command can be used to alter the widths of the following fields:

                  field  default    field  default    field  default
                  GID       5       GROUP     8       WCHAN    10
                  RUID      5       LXC       8       nsIPC    10
                  SUID      5       RUSER     8       nsMNT    10
                  UID       5       SUSER     8       nsNET    10
                                    TTY       8       nsPID    10
                                    USER      8       nsUSER   10
                                                      nsUTS    10

              You will be prompted for the amount to be added to the default widths shown above.  Entering zero forces a return to those defaults.

              If you enter a negative number, top will automatically increase the column size as needed until there is no more truncated data.  You can accelerate this process by reduc-
              ing the delay interval or holding down the <Space> bar.

              Note: Whether explicitly or automatically increased, the widths for these fields are never decreased by top.  To narrow them you must specify a smaller number  or  restore
              the defaults.

          Y  :Inspect-Other-Output
              After  issuing  the `Y' interactive command, you will be prompted for a target PID.  Typing a value or accepting the default results in a separate screen.  That screen can
              be used to view a variety of files or piped command output while the normal top iterative display is paused.

              Note: This interactive command is only fully realized when supporting entries have been manually added to the end of the top configuration file.  For details  on  creating
              those entries, see topic 6b. ADDING INSPECT Entries.

              Most of the keys used to navigate the Inspect feature are reflected in its header prologue.  There are, however, additional keys available once you have selected a partic-
              ular file or command.  They are familiar to anyone who has used the pager `less' and are summarized here for future reference.

                  key      function
                  =        alternate status-line, file or pipeline
                  /        find, equivalent to `L' locate
                  n        find next, equivalent to `&' locate next
                  <Space>  scroll down, equivalent to <PgDn>
                  b        scroll up, equivalent to <PgUp>
                  g        first line, equivalent to <Home>
                  G        last line, equivalent to <End>

          Z  :Change-Color-Mapping
              This key will take you to a separate screen where you can change the colors for the `current' window, or for all windows.  For details regarding this  interactive  command
              see topic 4d. COLOR Mapping.

       *  The commands shown with an asterisk (`*') are not available in Secure mode, nor will they be shown on the level-1 help screen.

   4b. SUMMARY AREA Commands
       The  summary  area interactive commands are always available in both full-screen mode and alternate-display mode.  They affect the beginning lines of your display and will deter-
       mine the position of messages and prompts.

       These commands always impact just the `current' window/field group.  See topic 5. ALTERNATE-DISPLAY Provisions and the `g' interactive command for insight into `current'  windows
       and field groups.

          C  :Show-scroll-coordinates toggle
              Toggle an informational message which is displayed whenever the message line is not otherwise being used.  For additional information see topic 5c. SCROLLING a Window.

          l  :Load-Average/Uptime toggle
              This  is  also the line containing the program name (possibly an alias) when operating in full-screen mode or the `current' window name when operating in alternate-display
              mode.

          t  :Task/Cpu-States toggle
              This command affects from 2 to many summary area lines, depending on the state of the `1', `2' or `3' command toggles and whether or not top is running under true SMP.

              This portion of the summary area is also influenced by the `H' interactive command toggle, as reflected in the total label which shows either Tasks or Threads.

              This command serves as a 4-way toggle, cycling through these modes:
                  1. detailed percentages by category
                  2. abbreviated user/system and total % + bar graph
                  3. abbreviated user/system and total % + block graph
                  4. turn off task and cpu states display

              When operating in either of the graphic modes, the display becomes much more meaningful when individual CPUs or NUMA nodes are also displayed.  See the the  `1',  `2'  and
              `3' commands below for additional information.

          m  :Memory/Swap-Usage toggle
              This command affects the two summary area lines dealing with physical and virtual memory.

              This command serves as a 4-way toggle, cycling through these modes:
                  1. detailed percentages by memory type
                  2. abbreviated % used/total available + bar graph
                  3. abbreviated % used/total available + block graph
                  4. turn off memory display

          1  :Single/Separate-Cpu-States toggle
              This  command  affects  how  the  `t'  command's  Cpu  States  portion is shown.  Although this toggle exists primarily to serve massively-parallel SMP machines, it is not
              restricted to solely SMP environments.

              When you see `%Cpu(s):' in the summary area, the `1' toggle is On and all cpu information is gathered in a single line.  Otherwise, each cpu is  displayed  separately  as:
              `%Cpu0, %Cpu1, ...'  up to available screen height.

          2  :NUMA-Nodes/Cpu-Summary toggle
              This  command  toggles between the `1' command cpu summary display (only) or a summary display plus the cpu usage statistics for each NUMA Node.  It is only available if a
              system has the requisite NUMA support.

          3  :Expand-NUMA-Node
              You will be invited to enter a number representing a NUMA Node.  Thereafter, a node summary plus the statistics for each cpu in that node will be shown  until  either  the
              `1' or `2' command toggle is pressed.  This interactive command is only available if a system has the requisite NUMA support.

       Note:  If the entire summary area has been toggled Off for any window, you would be left with just the message line.  In that way, you will have maximized available task rows but
       (temporarily) sacrificed the program name in full-screen mode or the `current' window name when in alternate-display mode.

   4c. TASK AREA Commands
       The task area interactive commands are always available in full-screen mode.

       The task area interactive commands are never available in alternate-display mode if the `current' window's task display has been toggled Off (see topic 5. ALTERNATE-DISPLAY  Pro-
       visions).

       APPEARANCE of task window

          J  :Justify-Numeric-Columns toggle
              Alternates  between  right-justified  (the  default)  and  left-justified numeric data.  If the numeric data completely fills the available column, this command toggle may
              impact the column header only.

          j  :Justify-Character-Columns toggle
              Alternates between left-justified (the default) and right-justified character data.  If the character data completely fills the available column, this command  toggle  may
              impact the column header only.

         The following commands will also be influenced by the state of the global `B' (bold enable) toggle.

          b  :Bold/Reverse toggle
              This  command will impact how the `x' and `y' toggles are displayed.  It may also impact the summary area when a bar graph has been selected for cpu states or memory usage
              via the `t' or `m' toggles.

          x  :Column-Highlight toggle
              Changes highlighting for the current sort field.  If you forget which field is being sorted this command can serve as a quick visual reminder, providing the sort field  is
              being displayed.  The sort field might not be visible because:
                  1) there is insufficient Screen Width
                  2) the `f' interactive command turned it Off

              Note:  Whenever  Searching and/or Other Filtering is active in a window, column highlighting is temporarily disabled.  See the notes at the end of topics 5d. SEARCHING and
              5e. FILTERING for an explanation why.

          y  :Row-Highlight toggle
              Changes highlighting for "running" tasks.  For additional insight into this task state, see topic 3a. DESCRIPTIONS of Fields, the `S' field (Process Status).

              Use of this provision provides important insight into your system's health.  The only costs will be a few additional tty escape sequences.

          z  :Color/Monochrome toggle
              Switches the `current' window between your last used color scheme and the older form of black-on-white or white-on-black.  This command will alter both  the  summary  area
              and task area but does not affect the state of the `x', `y' or `b' toggles.

       CONTENT of task window

          c  :Command-Line/Program-Name toggle
              This command will be honored whether or not the COMMAND column is currently visible.  Later, should that field come into view, the change you applied will be seen.

          f | F  :Fields-Management
              These  keys  display a separate screen where you can change which fields are displayed, their order and also designate the sort field.  For additional information on these
              interactive commands see topic 3b. MANAGING Fields.

          o | O  :Other-Filtering
              You will be prompted for the selection criteria which then determines which tasks will be shown in the `current' window.  Your criteria can be made case sensitive or  case
              can be ignored.  And you determine if top should include or exclude matching tasks.

              See topic 5e. FILTERING in a window for details on these and additional related interactive commands.

          S  :Cumulative-Time-Mode toggle
              When Cumulative mode is On, each process is listed with the cpu time that it and its dead children have used.

              When  Off, programs that fork into many separate tasks will appear less demanding.  For programs like `init' or a shell this is appropriate but for others, like compilers,
              perhaps not.  Experiment with two task windows sharing the same sort field but with different `S' states and see which representation you prefer.

              After issuing this command, you'll be informed of the new state of this toggle.  If you wish to know in advance whether or not Cumulative mode is in effect, simply ask for
              help and view the window summary on the second line.

          u | U  :Show-Specific-User-Only
              You  will  be  prompted  for  the uid or name of the user to display.  The -u option matches on  effective user whereas the -U option matches on any user (real, effective,
              saved, or filesystem).

              Thereafter, in that task window only matching users will be shown, or possibly no processes will be shown.  Prepending an exclamation point (`!') to the user  id  or  name
              instructs top to display only processes with users not matching the one provided.

              Different  task windows can be used to filter different users.  Later, if you wish to monitor all users again in the `current' window, re-issue this command but just press
              <Enter> at the prompt.

          V  :Forest-View-Mode toggle
              In this mode, processes are reordered according to their parents and the layout of the COMMAND column resembles that of a tree.  In forest view mode it is  still  possible
              to toggle between program name and command line (see the `c' interactive command) or between processes and threads (see the `H' interactive command).

              Note: Typing any key affecting the sort order will exit forest view mode in the `current' window.  See topic 4c. TASK AREA Commands, SORTING for information on those keys.

       SIZE of task window

          i  :Idle-Process toggle
              Displays all tasks or just active tasks.  When this toggle is Off, tasks that have not used any CPU since the last update will not be displayed.  However, due to the gran-
              ularity of the %CPU and TIME+ fields, some processes may still be displayed that appear to have used no CPU.

              If this command is applied to the last task display when in alternate-display mode, then it will not affect the window's size, as all prior task displays will have already
              been painted.

          n | #  :Set-Maximum-Tasks
              You will be prompted to enter the number of tasks to display.  The lessor of your number and available screen rows will be used.

              When used in alternate-display mode, this is the command that gives you precise control over the size of each currently visible task display, except for the very last.  It
              will not affect the last window's size, as all prior task displays will have already been painted.

              Note: If you wish to increase the size of the last visible task display when in alternate-display mode, simply decrease the size of the task display(s) above it.

       SORTING of task window

          For compatibility, this top supports most of the former top sort keys.  Since this is primarily a service to former top users, these commands do not appear on any help screen.
                command   sorted-field                  supported
                A         start time (non-display)      No
                M         %MEM                          Yes
                N         PID                           Yes
                P         %CPU                          Yes
                T         TIME+                         Yes

          Before using any of the following sort provisions, top suggests that you temporarily turn on column highlighting using the `x' interactive command.  That will help ensure that
          the actual sort environment matches your intent.

          The following interactive commands will only be honored when the current sort field is visible.  The sort field might not be visible because:
                1) there is insufficient Screen Width
                2) the `f' interactive command turned it Off

             <  :Move-Sort-Field-Left
                 Moves the sort column to the left unless the current sort field is the first field being displayed.

             >  :Move-Sort-Field-Right
                 Moves the sort column to the right unless the current sort field is the last field being displayed.

          The following interactive commands will always be honored whether or not the current sort field is visible.

             f | F  :Fields-Management
                 These  keys display a separate screen where you can change which field is used as the sort column, among other functions.  This can be a convenient way to simply verify
                 the current sort field, when running top with column highlighting turned Off.

             R  :Reverse/Normal-Sort-Field toggle
                 Using this interactive command you can alternate between high-to-low and low-to-high sorts.

          Note: Field sorting uses internal values, not those in column display.  Thus, the TTY and WCHAN fields will violate strict ASCII collating sequence.

   4d. COLOR Mapping
       When you issue the `Z' interactive command, you will be presented with a separate screen.  That screen can be used to change the colors in just the `current'  window  or  in  all
       four windows before returning to the top display.

       The following interactive commands are available.
           4 upper case letters to select a target
           8 numbers to select a color
           normal toggles available
               B         :bold disable/enable
               b         :running tasks "bold"/reverse
               z         :color/mono
           other commands available
               a/w       :apply, then go to next/prior
               <Enter>   :apply and exit
               q         :abandon current changes and exit

       If you use `a' or `w' to cycle the targeted window, you will have applied the color scheme that was displayed when you left that window.  You can, of course, easily return to any
       window and reapply different colors or turn colors Off completely with the `z' toggle.

       The Color Mapping screen can also be used to change the `current' window/field group in either full-screen mode or alternate-display mode.  Whatever  was  targeted  when  `q'  or
       <Enter> was pressed will be made current as you return to the top display.

