*45.3*	Using another encoding

Vim guesses that the files you are going to edit are encoded for your
language.  For many European languages this is "latin1".  Then each byte is
one character.  That means there are 256 different characters possible.  For
Asian languages this is not sufficient.  These mostly use a double-byte
encoding, providing for over ten thousand possible characters.  This still
isn't enough when a text is to contain several different languages.  This is
where Unicode comes in.  It was designed to include all characters used in
commonly used languages.  This is the "Super encoding that replaces all
others".  But it isn't used that much yet.
   Fortunately, Vim supports these three kinds of encodings.  And, with some
restrictions, you can use them even when your environment uses another
language than the text.
   Nevertheless, when you only edit files that are in the encoding of your
language, the default should work fine and you don't need to do anything.  The
following is only relevant when you want to edit different languages.


USING UNICODE IN THE GUI

The nice thing about Unicode is that other encodings can be converted to it
and back without losing information.  When you make Vim use Unicode
internally, you will be able to edit files in any encoding.
   Unfortunately, the number of systems supporting Unicode is still limited.
Thus it's unlikely that your language uses it.  You need to tell Vim you want
to use Unicode, and how to handle interfacing with the rest of the system.
   Let's start with the GUI version of Vim, which is able to display Unicode
characters.  This should work: >

	:set encoding=utf-8
	:set guifont=-misc-fixed-medium-r-normal--18-120-100-100-c-90-iso10646-1

The 'encoding' option tells Vim the encoding of the characters that you use.
This applies to the text in buffers (files you are editing), registers, Vim
script files, etc.  You can regard 'encoding' as the setting for the internals
of Vim.
   This example assumes you have this font on your system.  The name in the
example is for the X Window System.  This font is in a package that is used to
enhance xterm with Unicode support.  If you don't have this font, you might
find it here:

	http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~mgk25/download/ucs-fonts.tar.gz ~

For MS-Windows, some fonts have a limited number of Unicode characters.  Try
using the "Courier New" font.  You can use the Edit/Select Font... menu to
select and try out the fonts available.  Only fixed-width fonts can be used
though.  Example: >

	:set guifont=courier_new:h12

If it doesn't work well, try getting a fontpack.  If Microsoft didn't move it,
you can find it here:

	http://www.microsoft.com/typography/fonts/default.aspx ~

Now you have told Vim to use Unicode internally and display text with a
Unicode font.  Typed characters still arrive in the encoding of your original
language.  This requires converting them to Unicode.  Tell Vim the language
from which to convert with the 'termencoding' option.  You can do it like
this: >

	:let &termencoding = &encoding
	:set encoding=utf-8

This assigns the old value of 'encoding' to 'termencoding' before setting
'encoding' to utf-8.  You will have to try out if this really works for your
setup.  It should work especially well when using an input method for an Asian
language, and you want to edit Unicode text.


USING UNICODE IN A UNICODE TERMINAL

There are terminals that support Unicode directly.  The standard xterm that
comes with XFree86 is one of them.  Let's use that as an example.
   First of all, the xterm must have been compiled with Unicode support.  See
|UTF8-xterm| how to check that and how to compile it when needed.
   Start the xterm with the "-u8" argument.  You might also need so specify a
font.  Example: >

   xterm -u8 -fn -misc-fixed-medium-r-normal--18-120-100-100-c-90-iso10646-1

Now you can run Vim inside this terminal.  Set 'encoding' to "utf-8" as
before.  That's all.


USING UNICODE IN AN ORDINARY TERMINAL

Suppose you want to work with Unicode files, but don't have a terminal with
Unicode support.  You can do this with Vim, although characters that are not
supported by the terminal will not be displayed.  The layout of the text
will be preserved.  >

	:let &termencoding = &encoding
	:set encoding=utf-8

This is the same as what was used for the GUI.  But it works differently: Vim
will convert the displayed text before sending it to the terminal.  That
avoids that the display is messed up with strange characters.
   For this to work the conversion between 'termencoding' and 'encoding' must
be possible.  Vim will convert from latin1 to Unicode, thus that always works.
For other conversions the |+iconv| feature is required.
   Try editing a file with Unicode characters in it.  You will notice that Vim
will put a question mark (or underscore or some other character) in places
where a character should be that the terminal can't display.  Move the cursor
to a question mark and use this command: >

	ga

Vim will display a line with the code of the character.  This gives you a hint
about what character it is.  You can look it up in a Unicode table.  You could
actually view a file that way, if you have lots of time at hand.

	Note:
	Since 'encoding' is used for all text inside Vim, changing it makes
	all non-ASCII text invalid.  You will notice this when using registers
	and the 'viminfo' file (e.g., a remembered search pattern).  It's
	recommended to set 'encoding' in your vimrc file, and leave it alone.

