2.  Improved Processing of Incoming Connection Requests

   In a number of scenarios, a socket pair may need to be reused while
   the corresponding four-tuple is still in the TIME-WAIT state in a
   remote TCP peer.  For example, a client accessing some service on a
   host may try to create a new incarnation of a previous connection,
   while the corresponding four-tuple is still in the TIME-WAIT state at
   the remote TCP peer (the server).  This may happen if the ephemeral
   port numbers are being reused too quickly, either because of a bad
   policy of selection of ephemeral ports, or simply because of a high
   connection rate to the corresponding service.  In such scenarios, the
   establishment of new connections that reuse a four-tuple that is in
   the TIME-WAIT state would fail.  This problem is discussed in detail
   in [INFOCOM-99].

   In order to avoid this problem, Section 4.2.2.13 of RFC 1122
   [RFC1122] states that when a connection request is received with a
   four-tuple that is in the TIME-WAIT state, the connection request may
   be accepted if the sequence number of the incoming SYN segment is
   greater than the last sequence number seen on the previous
   incarnation of the connection (for that direction of the data
   transfer).  The goal of this requirement is to prevent the overlap of
   the sequence number spaces of the old and new incarnations of the
   connection so that segments from the old incarnation are not accepted
   as valid by the new incarnation.

   The same policy may be extrapolated to TCP timestamps.  That is, when
   a connection request is received with a four-tuple that is in the
   TIME-WAIT state, the connection request could be accepted if the
   timestamp of the incoming SYN segment is greater than the last
   timestamp seen on the previous incarnation of the connection (for
   that direction of the data transfer).

   The following paragraphs summarize the processing of SYN segments
   received for connections in the TIME-WAIT state.  The processing of
   SYN segments received for connections in all other states is
   unchanged.  Both the ISN (Initial Sequence Number) and the Timestamps





Gont                      Best Current Practice                 [Page 3]

RFC 6191        Reducing TIME-WAIT State with Timestamps      April 2011


   option (if present) of the incoming SYN segment are included in the
   heuristics performed for allowing a high connection-establishment
   rate.

   Processing of SYN segments received for connections in the TIME-WAIT
   state SHOULD occur as follows:

   o  If the previous incarnation of the connection used Timestamps,
      then:

      *  If TCP Timestamps would be enabled for the new incarnation of
         the connection, and the timestamp contained in the incoming SYN
         segment is greater than the last timestamp seen on the previous
         incarnation of the connection (for that direction of the data
         transfer), honor the connection request (creating a connection
         in the SYN-RECEIVED state).

      *  If TCP Timestamps would be enabled for the new incarnation of
         the connection, the timestamp contained in the incoming SYN
         segment is equal to the last timestamp seen on the previous
         incarnation of the connection (for that direction of the data
         transfer), and the Sequence Number of the incoming SYN segment
         is greater than the last sequence number seen on the previous
         incarnation of the connection (for that direction of the data
         transfer), honor the connection request (creating a connection
         in the SYN-RECEIVED state).

      *  If TCP Timestamps would not be enabled for the new incarnation
         of the connection, but the Sequence Number of the incoming SYN
         segment is greater than the last sequence number seen on the
         previous incarnation of the connection (for the same direction
         of the data transfer), honor the connection request (creating a
         connection in the SYN-RECEIVED state).

      *  Otherwise, silently drop the incoming SYN segment, thus leaving
         the previous incarnation of the connection in the TIME-WAIT
         state.

   o  If the previous incarnation of the connection did not use
      Timestamps, then:

      *  If TCP Timestamps would be enabled for the new incarnation of
         the connection, honor the incoming connection request (creating
         a connection in the SYN-RECEIVED state).







Gont                      Best Current Practice                 [Page 4]

RFC 6191        Reducing TIME-WAIT State with Timestamps      April 2011


      *  If TCP Timestamps would not be enabled for the new incarnation
         of the connection, but the Sequence Number of the incoming SYN
         segment is greater than the last sequence number seen on the
         previous incarnation of the connection (for the same direction
         of the data transfer), honor the incoming connection request
         (creating a connection in the SYN-RECEIVED state).

      *  Otherwise, silently drop the incoming SYN segment, thus leaving
         the previous incarnation of the connection in the TIME-WAIT
         state.

   Note:

      In the above explanation, the phrase "TCP Timestamps would be
      enabled for the new incarnation for the connection" means that the
      incoming SYN segment contains a TCP Timestamps option (i.e., the
      client has enabled TCP Timestamps), and that the SYN/ACK segment
      that would be sent in response to it would also contain a
      Timestamps option (i.e., the server has enabled TCP Timestamps).
      In such a scenario, TCP Timestamps would be enabled for the new
      incarnation of the connection.

      The "last sequence number seen on the previous incarnation of the
      connection (for the same direction of the data transfer)" refers
      to the last sequence number used by the previous incarnation of
      the connection (for the same direction of the data transfer), and
      not to the last value seen in the Sequence Number field of the
      corresponding segments.  That is, it refers to the sequence number
      corresponding to the FIN flag of the previous incarnation of the
      connection, for that direction of the data transfer.

   Many implementations do not include the TCP Timestamps option when
   performing the above heuristics, thus imposing stricter constraints
   on the generation of Initial Sequence Numbers, the average data
   transfer rate of the connections, and the amount of data transferred
   with them.  RFC 793 [RFC0793] states that the ISN generator should be
   incremented roughly once every four microseconds (i.e., roughly
   250,000 times per second).  As a result, any connection that
   transfers more than 250,000 bytes of data at more than 250 kilobytes/
   second could lead to scenarios in which the last sequence number seen
   on a connection that moves into the TIME-WAIT state is still greater
   than the sequence number of an incoming SYN segment that aims at
   creating a new incarnation of the same connection.  In those
   scenarios, the ISN heuristics would fail, and therefore the
   connection request would usually time out.  By including the TCP
   Timestamps option in the heuristics described above, all these
   constraints are greatly relaxed.




Gont                      Best Current Practice                 [Page 5]

RFC 6191        Reducing TIME-WAIT State with Timestamps      April 2011


   It is clear that the use of TCP timestamps for the heuristics
   described above benefit from timestamps that are monotonically
   increasing across connections between the same two TCP endpoints.

   Note:
      The upcoming revision of RFC 1323, [1323bis], recommends the
      selection of timestamps such that they are monotonically
      increasing across connections.  An example of such a timestamp
      generation scheme can be found in [TS-Generation].

