3.  Interaction with Various Timestamp Generation Algorithms

   The algorithm proposed in Section 2 clearly benefits from timestamps
   that are monotonically increasing across connections to the same
   endpoint.  In particular, generation of timestamps such that they are
   monotonically increasing is important for TCP instances that perform
   the active open, as those are the timestamps that will be used for
   the proposed algorithm.

   While monotonically increasing timestamps ensure that the proposed
   algorithm will be able to reduce the TIME-WAIT state of a previous
   incarnation of a connection, implementation of the algorithm (by
   itself) does not imply a requirement on the timestamp generation
   algorithm of other TCP implementations.

   In the worst-case scenario, an incoming SYN corresponding to a new
   incarnation of a connection in the TIME-WAIT contains a timestamp
   that is smaller than the last timestamp seen on the previous
   incarnation of the connection, the heuristics fail, and the result is
   no worse than the current state of affairs.  That is, the SYN segment
   is ignored (as specified in [RFC1337]), and thus the connection
   request times out, or is accepted after future retransmissions of the
   SYN.

   Some stacks may implement timestamp generation algorithms that do not
   lead to monotonically increasing timestamps across connections with
   the same remote endpoint.  An example of such algorithms is the one
   described in [RFC4987] and [Opperman], which allows the
   implementation of extended TCP SYN cookies.

   Note:
      It should be noted that the "extended TCP SYN cookies" could
      coexist with an algorithm for generating timestamps such that they
      are monotonically increasing.  Monotonically increasing timestamps
      could be generated for TCP instances that perform the active open,
      while timestamps for TCP instances that perform the passive open
      could be generated according to [Opperman].




Gont                      Best Current Practice                 [Page 6]

RFC 6191        Reducing TIME-WAIT State with Timestamps      April 2011


   Some stacks (notably OpenBSD) implement timestamp randomization
   algorithms which do not result in monotonically increasing ISNs
   across connections.  As noted in [Silbersack], such randomization
   schemes may prevent the mechanism proposed in this document from
   recycling connections that are in the TIME-WAIT state.  However, as
   noted earlier in this section in the worst-case scenario, the
   heuristics fail, and the result is no worse than the current state of
   affairs.

