*27.1*	Ignoring case

By default, Vim's searches are case sensitive.  Therefore, "include",
"INCLUDE", and "Include" are three different words and a search will match
only one of them.
   Now switch on the 'ignorecase' option: >

	:set ignorecase

Search for "include" again, and now it will match "Include", "INCLUDE" and
"InClUDe".  (Set the 'hlsearch' option to quickly see where a pattern
matches.)
   You can switch this off again with: >

	:set noignorecase

But let's keep it set, and search for "INCLUDE".  It will match exactly the
same text as "include" did.  Now set the 'smartcase' option: >

	:set ignorecase smartcase

If you have a pattern with at least one uppercase character, the search
becomes case sensitive.  The idea is that you didn't have to type that
uppercase character, so you must have done it because you wanted case to
match.  That's smart!
    With these two options set you find the following matches:

	pattern			matches	~
	word			word, Word, WORD, WoRd, etc.
	Word			Word
	WORD			WORD
	WoRd			WoRd


CASE IN ONE PATTERN

If you want to ignore case for one specific pattern, you can do this by
prepending the "\c" string.  Using "\C" will make the pattern to match case.
This overrules the 'ignorecase' and 'smartcase' options, when "\c" or "\C" is
used their value doesn't matter.

	pattern			matches	~
	\Cword			word
	\CWord			Word
	\cword			word, Word, WORD, WoRd, etc.
	\cWord			word, Word, WORD, WoRd, etc.

A big advantage of using "\c" and "\C" is that it sticks with the pattern.
Thus if you repeat a pattern from the search history, the same will happen, no
matter if 'ignorecase' or 'smartcase' was changed.

	Note:
	The use of "\" items in search patterns depends on the 'magic' option.
	In this chapter we will assume 'magic' is on, because that is the
	standard and recommended setting.  If you would change 'magic', many
	search patterns would suddenly become invalid.

	Note:
	If your search takes much longer than you expected, you can interrupt
	it with CTRL-C on Unix and CTRL-Break on MS-Windows.

