       DriveBackup (Object)

       Members:

       "job-id: string" (optional)
           identifier for the newly-created block job. If omitted, the device name will be used. (Since 2.7)

       "device: string"
           the device name or node-name of a root node which should be copied.

       "target: string"
           the target of the new image. If the file exists, or if it is a device, the existing file/device will be used as the new destination.  If it does not exist, a new file will be
           created.

       "format: string" (optional)
           the format of the new destination, default is to probe if "mode" is 'existing', else the format of the source

       "sync: MirrorSyncMode"
           what parts of the disk image should be copied to the destination (all the disk, only the sectors allocated in the topmost image, from a dirty bitmap, or only new I/O).

       "mode: NewImageMode" (optional)
           whether and how QEMU should create a new image, default is 'absolute-paths'.

       "speed: int" (optional)
           the maximum speed, in bytes per second

       "bitmap: string" (optional)
           the name of dirty bitmap if sync is "incremental".  Must be present if sync is "incremental", must NOT be present otherwise. (Since 2.4)

       "compress: boolean" (optional)
           true to compress data, if the target format supports it.  (default: false) (since 2.8)

       "on-source-error: BlockdevOnError" (optional)
           the action to take on an error on the source, default 'report'.  'stop' and 'enospc' can only be used if the block device supports io-status (see BlockInfo).

       "on-target-error: BlockdevOnError" (optional)
           the action to take on an error on the target, default 'report' (no limitations, since this applies to a different block device than "device").

       "auto-finalize: boolean" (optional)
           When false, this job will wait in a PENDING state after it has finished its work, waiting for "block-job-finalize" before making any block graph changes.  When true, this job
           will automatically perform its abort or commit actions.  Defaults to true. (Since 2.12)

       "auto-dismiss: boolean" (optional)
           When false, this job will wait in a CONCLUDED state after it has completely ceased all work, and awaits "block-job-dismiss".  When true, this job will automatically disappear
           from the query list without user intervention.  Defaults to true. (Since 2.12)

       Note: "on-source-error" and "on-target-error" only affect background I/O.  If an error occurs during a guest write request, the device's rerror/werror actions will be used.

       Since: 1.6

