       block-commit  (Command) Live commit of data from overlay image nodes into backing nodes - i.e., writes data between 'top' and 'base' into 'base'.

       Arguments:

       "job-id: string" (optional)
           identifier for the newly-created block job. If omitted, the device name will be used. (Since 2.7)

       "device: string"
           the device name or node-name of a root node

       "base-node: string" (optional)
           The node name of the backing image to write data into.  If not specified, this is the deepest backing image.  (since: 3.1)

       "base: string" (optional)
           Same as "base-node", except that it is a file name rather than a node name. This must be the exact filename string that was used to open the node; other strings, even if
           addressing the same file, are not accepted (deprecated, use "base-node" instead)

       "top-node: string" (optional)
           The node name of the backing image within the image chain which contains the topmost data to be committed down. If not specified, this is the active layer. (since: 3.1)

       "top: string" (optional)
           Same as "top-node", except that it is a file name rather than a node name. This must be the exact filename string that was used to open the node; other strings, even if
           addressing the same file, are not accepted (deprecated, use "base-node" instead)

       "backing-file: string" (optional)
           The backing file string to write into the overlay image of 'top'.  If 'top' is the active layer, specifying a backing file string is an error. This filename is not validated.

           If a pathname string is such that it cannot be resolved by QEMU, that means that subsequent QMP or HMP commands must use node-names for the image in question, as filename
           lookup methods will fail.

           If not specified, QEMU will automatically determine the backing file string to use, or error out if there is no obvious choice. Care should be taken when specifying the
           string, to specify a valid filename or protocol.  (Since 2.1)

           If top == base, that is an error.  If top == active, the job will not be completed by itself, user needs to complete the job with the block-job-complete command after getting
           the ready event. (Since 2.0)

           If the base image is smaller than top, then the base image will be resized to be the same size as top.  If top is smaller than the base image, the base will not be truncated.
           If you want the base image size to match the size of the smaller top, you can safely truncate it yourself once the commit operation successfully completes.

       "speed: int" (optional)
           the maximum speed, in bytes per second

       "filter-node-name: string" (optional)
           the node name that should be assigned to the filter driver that the commit job inserts into the graph above "top". If this option is not given, a node name is autogenerated.
           (Since: 2.9)

       "auto-finalize: boolean" (optional)
           When false, this job will wait in a PENDING state after it has finished its work, waiting for "block-job-finalize" before making any block graph changes.  When true, this job
           will automatically perform its abort or commit actions.  Defaults to true. (Since 3.1)

       "auto-dismiss: boolean" (optional)
           When false, this job will wait in a CONCLUDED state after it has completely ceased all work, and awaits "block-job-dismiss".  When true, this job will automatically disappear
           from the query list without user intervention.  Defaults to true. (Since 3.1)

       Returns: Nothing on success If "device" does not exist, DeviceNotFound Any other error returns a GenericError.

       Since: 1.3

       Example:

               -> { "execute": "block-commit",
                    "arguments": { "device": "virtio0",
                                   "top": "/tmp/snap1.qcow2" } }
               <- { "return": {} }

