       DriveMirror (Object)

       A set of parameters describing drive mirror setup.

       Members:

       "job-id: string" (optional)
           identifier for the newly-created block job. If omitted, the device name will be used. (Since 2.7)

       "device: string"
           the device name or node-name of a root node whose writes should be mirrored.

       "target: string"
           the target of the new image. If the file exists, or if it is a device, the existing file/device will be used as the new destination.  If it does not exist, a new file will be
           created.

       "format: string" (optional)
           the format of the new destination, default is to probe if "mode" is 'existing', else the format of the source

       "node-name: string" (optional)
           the new block driver state node name in the graph (Since 2.1)

       "replaces: string" (optional)
           with sync=full graph node name to be replaced by the new image when a whole image copy is done. This can be used to repair broken Quorum files. (Since 2.1)

       "mode: NewImageMode" (optional)
           whether and how QEMU should create a new image, default is 'absolute-paths'.

       "speed: int" (optional)
           the maximum speed, in bytes per second

       "sync: MirrorSyncMode"
           what parts of the disk image should be copied to the destination (all the disk, only the sectors allocated in the topmost image, or only new I/O).

       "granularity: int" (optional)
           granularity of the dirty bitmap, default is 64K if the image format doesn't have clusters, 4K if the clusters are smaller than that, else the cluster size.  Must be a power
           of 2 between 512 and 64M (since 1.4).

       "buf-size: int" (optional)
           maximum amount of data in flight from source to target (since 1.4).

       "on-source-error: BlockdevOnError" (optional)
           the action to take on an error on the source, default 'report'.  'stop' and 'enospc' can only be used if the block device supports io-status (see BlockInfo).

       "on-target-error: BlockdevOnError" (optional)
           the action to take on an error on the target, default 'report' (no limitations, since this applies to a different block device than "device").

       "unmap: boolean" (optional)
           Whether to try to unmap target sectors where source has only zero. If true, and target unallocated sectors will read as zero, target image sectors will be unmapped;
           otherwise, zeroes will be written. Both will result in identical contents.  Default is true. (Since 2.4)

       "copy-mode: MirrorCopyMode" (optional)
           when to copy data to the destination; defaults to 'background' (Since: 3.0)

       "auto-finalize: boolean" (optional)
           When false, this job will wait in a PENDING state after it has finished its work, waiting for "block-job-finalize" before making any block graph changes.  When true, this job
           will automatically perform its abort or commit actions.  Defaults to true. (Since 3.1)

       "auto-dismiss: boolean" (optional)
           When false, this job will wait in a CONCLUDED state after it has completely ceased all work, and awaits "block-job-dismiss".  When true, this job will automatically disappear
           from the query list without user intervention.  Defaults to true. (Since 3.1)

       Since: 1.3

