       block-stream  (Command) Copy data from a backing file into a block device.

       The block streaming operation is performed in the background until the entire backing file has been copied.  This command returns immediately once streaming has started.  The
       status of ongoing block streaming operations can be checked with query-block-jobs.  The operation can be stopped before it has completed using the block-job-cancel command.

       The node that receives the data is called the top image, can be located in any part of the chain (but always above the base image; see below) and can be specified using its
       device or node name. Earlier qemu versions only allowed 'device' to name the top level node; presence of the 'base-node' parameter during introspection can be used as a witness
       of the enhanced semantics of 'device'.

       If a base file is specified then sectors are not copied from that base file and its backing chain.  When streaming completes the image file will have the base file as its backing
       file.  This can be used to stream a subset of the backing file chain instead of flattening the entire image.

       On successful completion the image file is updated to drop the backing file and the BLOCK_JOB_COMPLETED event is emitted.

       Arguments:

       "job-id: string" (optional)
           identifier for the newly-created block job. If omitted, the device name will be used. (Since 2.7)

       "device: string"
           the device or node name of the top image

       "base: string" (optional)
           the common backing file name.  It cannot be set if "base-node" is also set.

       "base-node: string" (optional)
           the node name of the backing file.  It cannot be set if "base" is also set. (Since 2.8)

       "backing-file: string" (optional)
           The backing file string to write into the top image. This filename is not validated.

           If a pathname string is such that it cannot be resolved by QEMU, that means that subsequent QMP or HMP commands must use node-names for the image in question, as filename
           lookup methods will fail.

           If not specified, QEMU will automatically determine the backing file string to use, or error out if there is no obvious choice.  Care should be taken when specifying the
           string, to specify a valid filename or protocol.  (Since 2.1)

       "speed: int" (optional)
           the maximum speed, in bytes per second

       "on-error: BlockdevOnError" (optional)
           the action to take on an error (default report).  'stop' and 'enospc' can only be used if the block device supports io-status (see BlockInfo).  Since 1.3.

       "auto-finalize: boolean" (optional)
           When false, this job will wait in a PENDING state after it has finished its work, waiting for "block-job-finalize" before making any block graph changes.  When true, this job
           will automatically perform its abort or commit actions.  Defaults to true. (Since 3.1)

       "auto-dismiss: boolean" (optional)
           When false, this job will wait in a CONCLUDED state after it has completely ceased all work, and awaits "block-job-dismiss".  When true, this job will automatically disappear
           from the query list without user intervention.  Defaults to true. (Since 3.1)

       Returns: Nothing on success. If "device" does not exist, DeviceNotFound.

       Since: 1.1

       Example:

               -> { "execute": "block-stream",
                    "arguments": { "device": "virtio0",
                                   "base": "/tmp/master.qcow2" } }
               <- { "return": {} }

