       BlockdevOptionsQcow2 (Object)

       Driver specific block device options for qcow2.

       Members:

       "lazy-refcounts: boolean" (optional)
           whether to enable the lazy refcounts feature (default is taken from the image file)

       "pass-discard-request: boolean" (optional)
           whether discard requests to the qcow2 device should be forwarded to the data source

       "pass-discard-snapshot: boolean" (optional)
           whether discard requests for the data source should be issued when a snapshot operation (e.g.  deleting a snapshot) frees clusters in the qcow2 file

       "pass-discard-other: boolean" (optional)
           whether discard requests for the data source should be issued on other occasions where a cluster gets freed

       "overlap-check: Qcow2OverlapChecks" (optional)
           which overlap checks to perform for writes to the image, defaults to 'cached' (since 2.2)

       "cache-size: int" (optional)
           the maximum total size of the L2 table and refcount block caches in bytes (since 2.2)

       "l2-cache-size: int" (optional)
           the maximum size of the L2 table cache in bytes (since 2.2)

       "l2-cache-entry-size: int" (optional)
           the size of each entry in the L2 cache in bytes. It must be a power of two between 512 and the cluster size. The default value is the cluster size (since 2.12)

       "refcount-cache-size: int" (optional)
           the maximum size of the refcount block cache in bytes (since 2.2)

       "cache-clean-interval: int" (optional)
           clean unused entries in the L2 and refcount caches. The interval is in seconds. The default value is 600 on supporting platforms, and 0 on other platforms. 0 disables this
           feature. (since 2.5)

       "encrypt: BlockdevQcow2Encryption" (optional)
           Image decryption options. Mandatory for encrypted images, except when doing a metadata-only probe of the image. (since 2.10)

       The members of "BlockdevOptionsGenericCOWFormat"

       Since: 2.9

