7.  Traffic Classes

   The 8-bit Traffic Class field in the IPv6 header is available for use
   by originating nodes and/or forwarding routers to identify and
   distinguish between different classes or priorities of IPv6 packets.
   At the point in time at which this specification is being written,
   there are a number of experiments underway in the use of the IPv4
   Type of Service and/or Precedence bits to provide various forms of
   "differentiated service" for IP packets, other than through the use
   of explicit flow set-up.  The Traffic Class field in the IPv6 header
   is intended to allow similar functionality to be supported in IPv6.



Deering & Hinden            Standards Track                    [Page 25]

RFC 2460                   IPv6 Specification              December 1998


   It is hoped that those experiments will eventually lead to agreement
   on what sorts of traffic classifications are most useful for IP
   packets.  Detailed definitions of the syntax and semantics of all or
   some of the IPv6 Traffic Class bits, whether experimental or intended
   for eventual standardization, are to be provided in separate
   documents.

   The following general requirements apply to the Traffic Class field:

      o  The service interface to the IPv6 service within a node must
         provide a means for an upper-layer protocol to supply the value
         of the Traffic Class bits in packets originated by that upper-
         layer protocol.  The default value must be zero for all 8 bits.

      o  Nodes that support a specific (experimental or eventual
         standard) use of some or all of the Traffic Class bits are
         permitted to change the value of those bits in packets that
         they originate, forward, or receive, as required for that
         specific use.  Nodes should ignore and leave unchanged any bits
         of the Traffic Class field for which they do not support a
         specific use.

      o  An upper-layer protocol must not assume that the value of the
         Traffic Class bits in a received packet are the same as the
         value sent by the packet's source.


























Deering & Hinden            Standards Track                    [Page 26]

RFC 2460                   IPv6 Specification              December 1998


