1.  Introduction

   The Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) specification [RFC0793]
   defines a local, per-connection "user timeout" parameter that
   specifies the maximum amount of time that transmitted data may remain
   unacknowledged before TCP will forcefully close the corresponding
   connection.  Applications can set and change this parameter with OPEN
   and SEND calls.  If an end-to-end connectivity disruption lasts
   longer than the user timeout, a sender will receive no
   acknowledgments for any transmission attempt, including keep-alives,
   and it will close the TCP connection when the user timeout occurs.

   This document specifies a new TCP option -- the TCP User Timeout
   Option (UTO) -- that allows one end of a TCP connection to advertise
   its current user timeout value.  This information provides advice to
   the other end of the connection to adapt its user timeout
   accordingly.  That is, TCP remains free to disregard the advice
   provided by the UTO option if local policies suggest it to be
   appropriate.

   Increasing the user timeouts on both ends of a TCP connection allows
   it to survive extended periods without end-to-end connectivity.
   Decreasing the user timeouts allows busy servers to explicitly notify
   their clients that they will maintain the connection state only for a
   short time without connectivity.






Eggert & Gont               Standards Track                     [Page 2]

RFC 5482                TCP User Timeout Option               March 2009


   In the absence of an application-specified user timeout, the TCP
   specification [RFC0793] defines a default user timeout of 5 minutes.
   The Host Requirements RFC [RFC1122] refines this definition by
   introducing two thresholds, R1 and R2 (R2 > R1), that control the
   number of retransmission attempts for a single segment.  It suggests
   that TCP should notify applications when R1 is reached for a segment,
   and close the connection when R2 is reached.  [RFC1122] also defines
   the recommended values for R1 (3 retransmissions) and R2 (100
   seconds), noting that R2 for SYN segments should be at least 3
   minutes.  Instead of a single user timeout, some TCP implementations
   offer finer-grained policies.  For example, Solaris supports
   different timeouts depending on whether a TCP connection is in the
   SYN-SENT, SYN-RECEIVED, or ESTABLISHED state [SOLARIS].

   Although some TCP implementations allow applications to set their
   local user timeout, TCP has no in-protocol mechanism to signal
   changes to the local user timeout to the other end of a connection.
   This causes local changes to be ineffective in allowing a connection
   to survive extended periods without connectivity, because the other
   end will still close the connection after its user timeout expires.

   The ability to inform the other end of a connection about the local
   user timeout can improve TCP operation in scenarios that are
   currently not well supported.  One example of such a scenario is
   mobile hosts that change network attachment points.  Such hosts,
   maybe using Mobile IP [RFC3344], HIP [RFC4423], or transport-layer
   mobility mechanisms [TCP_MOB], are only intermittently connected to
   the Internet.  In between connected periods, mobile hosts may
   experience periods without end-to-end connectivity.  Other factors
   that can cause transient connectivity disruptions are high levels of
   congestion or link or routing failures inside the network.  In these
   scenarios, a host may not know exactly when or for how long
   connectivity disruptions will occur, but it might be able to
   determine an increased likelihood for such events based on past
   mobility patterns and thus benefit from using longer user timeouts.
   In other scenarios, the time and duration of a connectivity
   disruption may even be predictable.  For example, a node in space
   might experience connectivity disruptions due to line-of-sight
   blocking by planetary bodies.  The timing of these events may be
   computable from orbital mechanics.

