3.1.  Changing the Local User Timeout

   When a host receives a TCP User Timeout Option, it must decide
   whether to change the local user timeout of the corresponding
   connection.  If the CHANGEABLE flag is false, USER_TIMEOUT MUST NOT
   be changed, regardless of the received UTO option.  Without this
   restriction, the UTO option would modify TCP semantics, because an
   application-requested USER TIMEOUT could be overridden by peer
   requests.  In this case TCP SHOULD, however, notify the application
   about the user timeout value received from the other end system.







Eggert & Gont               Standards Track                     [Page 5]

RFC 5482                TCP User Timeout Option               March 2009


   In general, unless the application on the local host has requested a
   specific USER TIMEOUT for the connection, CHANGEABLE will be true and
   hosts SHOULD adjust the local TCP USER TIMEOUT (USER_TIMEOUT) in
   response to receiving a UTO option, as described in the remainder of
   this section.

   The UTO option specifies the user timeout in seconds or minutes,
   rather than in number of retransmissions or round-trip times (RTTs).
   Thus, the UTO option allows hosts to exchange user timeout values
   from 1 second to over 9 hours at a granularity of seconds, and from 1
   minute to over 22 days at a granularity of minutes.

   Very short USER TIMEOUT values can affect TCP transmissions over
   high-delay paths.  If the user timeout occurs before an
   acknowledgment for an outstanding segment arrives, possibly due to
   packet loss, the connection closes.  Many TCP implementations default
   to USER TIMEOUT values of a few minutes.  Although the UTO option
   allows suggestion of short timeouts, applications advertising them
   should consider these effects.

   Long USER TIMEOUT values allow hosts to tolerate extended periods
   without end-to-end connectivity.  However, they also require hosts to
   maintain the TCP state information associated with connections for
   long periods of time.  Section 6 discusses the security implications
   of long timeout values.

   To protect against these effects, implementations MUST impose limits
   on the user timeout values they accept and use.  The remainder of
   this section describes a RECOMMENDED scheme to limit TCP's USER
   TIMEOUT based on upper and lower limits.

   Under the RECOMMENDED scheme, and when CHANGEABLE is true, each end
   SHOULD compute the local USER TIMEOUT for a connection according to
   this formula:

   USER_TIMEOUT = min(U_LIMIT, max(ADV_UTO, REMOTE_UTO, L_LIMIT))

   Each field is to be interpreted as follows:

   USER_TIMEOUT
      USER TIMEOUT value to be adopted by the local TCP for this
      connection.

   U_LIMIT
      Current upper limit imposed on the user timeout of a connection by
      the local host.





Eggert & Gont               Standards Track                     [Page 6]

RFC 5482                TCP User Timeout Option               March 2009


   ADV_UTO
      User timeout advertised to the remote TCP peer in a TCP User
      Timeout Option.

   REMOTE_UTO
      Last user timeout value received from the other end in a TCP User
      Timeout Option.

   L_LIMIT
      Current lower limit imposed on the user timeout of a connection by
      the local host.

   The RECOMMENDED formula results in the maximum of the two advertised
   values, adjusted for the configured upper and lower limits, to be
   adopted for the user timeout of the connection on both ends.  The
   rationale is that choosing the maximum of the two values will let the
   connection survive longer periods without end-to-end connectivity.
   If the end that announced the lower of the two user timeout values
   did so in order to reduce the amount of TCP state information that
   must be kept on the host, it can close or abort the connection
   whenever it wants.

   It must be noted that the two endpoints of the connection will not
   necessarily adopt the same user timeout.

   Enforcing a lower limit (L_LIMIT) prevents connections from closing
   due to transient network conditions, including temporary congestion,
   mobility hand-offs, and routing instabilities.

   An upper limit (U_LIMIT) can reduce the effect of resource exhaustion
   attacks.  Section 6 discusses the details of these attacks.

   Note that these limits MAY be specified as system-wide constants or
   at other granularities, such as on per-host, per-user, per-outgoing-
   interface, or even per-connection basis.  Furthermore, these limits
   need not be static.  For example, they MAY be a function of system
   resource utilization or attack status and could be dynamically
   adapted.

   The Host Requirements RFC [RFC1122] does not impose any limits on the
   length of the user timeout.  However, it recommends a time interval
   of at least 100 seconds.  Consequently, the lower limit (L_LIMIT)
   SHOULD be set to at least 100 seconds when following the RECOMMENDED
   scheme described in this section.  Adopting a user timeout smaller
   than the current retransmission timeout (RTO) for the connection
   would likely cause the connection to be aborted unnecessarily.
   Therefore, the lower limit (L_LIMIT) MUST be larger than the current




Eggert & Gont               Standards Track                     [Page 7]

RFC 5482                TCP User Timeout Option               March 2009


   retransmission timeout (RTO) for the connection.  It is worth noting
   that an upper limit may be imposed on the RTO, provided it is at
   least 60 seconds [RFC2988].

