Configuration Support
       Following  is  a  description of the configuration commands in NTPv4.  These commands have the same basic functions as in NTPv3 and in some cases new functions and new arguments.
       There are two classes of commands, configuration commands that configure a persistent association with a remote server or peer or reference clock,  and  auxiliary  commands  that
       specify environmental variables that control various related operations.

   Configuration Commands
       The  various  modes  are determined by the command keyword and the type of the required IP address.  Addresses are classed by type as (s) a remote server or peer (IPv4 class A, B
       and C), (b) the broadcast address of a local interface, (m) a multicast address (IPv4 class D), or (r) a reference clock address (127.127.x.x).   Note  that  only  those  options
       applicable to each command are listed below.  Use of options not listed may not be caught as an error, but may result in some weird and even destructive behavior.

       If  the Basic Socket Interface Extensions for IPv6 (RFC-2553) is detected, support for the IPv6 address family is generated in addition to the default support of the IPv4 address
       family.  In a few cases, including the reslist billboard generated by ntpq(8) or ntpdc(8), IPv6 addresses are automatically generated.  IPv6 addresses can be  identified  by  the
       presence  of colons : in the address field.  IPv6 addresses can be used almost everywhere where IPv4 addresses can be used, with the exception of reference clock addresses, which
       are always IPv4.

       Note that in contexts where a host name is expected, a -4 qualifier preceding the host name forces DNS resolution to the IPv4 namespace, while a -6 qualifier forces  DNS  resolu-
       tion to the IPv6 namespace.  See IPv6 references for the equivalent classes for that address family.

       pool address [burst] [iburst] [version version] [prefer] [minpoll minpoll] [maxpoll maxpoll]

       server address [key key | autokey] [burst] [iburst] [version version] [prefer] [minpoll minpoll] [maxpoll maxpoll] [true]

       peer address [key key | autokey] [version version] [prefer] [minpoll minpoll] [maxpoll maxpoll] [true] [xleave]

       broadcast address [key key | autokey] [version version] [prefer] [minpoll minpoll] [ttl ttl] [xleave]

       manycastclient address [key key | autokey] [version version] [prefer] [minpoll minpoll] [maxpoll maxpoll] [ttl ttl]

       These  five  commands  specify  the time server name or address to be used and the mode in which to operate.  The address can be either a DNS name or an IP address in dotted-quad
       notation.  Additional information on association behavior can be found  in  the  "Association  Management"  page  (available  as  part  of  the  HTML  documentation  provided  in
       /usr/share/doc/ntp).

       pool   For  type  s  addresses, this command mobilizes a persistent client mode association with a number of remote servers.  In this mode the local clock can synchronized to the
              remote server, but the remote server can never be synchronized to the local clock.

       server For type s and r addresses, this command mobilizes a persistent client mode association with the specified remote server or local radio clock.   In  this  mode  the  local
              clock  can  synchronized  to  the  remote  server,  but  the  remote  server can never be synchronized to the local clock.  This command should not be used for type b or m
              addresses.

       peer   For type s addresses (only), this command mobilizes a persistent symmetric-active mode association with the specified remote peer.  In this mode the  local  clock  can  be
              synchronized to the remote peer or the remote peer can be synchronized to the local clock.  This is useful in a network of servers where, depending on various failure sce-
              narios, either the local or remote peer may be the better source of time.  This command should NOT be used for type b, m or r addresses.

       broadcast
              For type b and m addresses (only), this command mobilizes a persistent broadcast mode association.  Multiple commands can be  used  to  specify  multiple  local  broadcast
              interfaces  (subnets)  and/or  multiple  multicast groups.  Note that local broadcast messages go only to the interface associated with the subnet specified, but multicast
              messages go to all interfaces.  In broadcast mode the local server sends periodic broadcast messages to a client population at the address specified, which is usually  the
              broadcast  address  on  (one  of)  the  local network(s) or a multicast address assigned to NTP.  The IANA has assigned the multicast group address IPv4 224.0.1.1 and IPv6
              ff05::101 (site local) exclusively to NTP, but other nonconflicting addresses can be used to contain the messages within administrative boundaries.  Ordinarily, this spec-
              ification applies only to the local server operating as a sender; for operation as a broadcast client, see the broadcastclient or multicastclient commands below.

       manycastclient
              For  type  m addresses (only), this command mobilizes a manycast client mode association for the multicast address specified.  In this case a specific address must be sup-
              plied which matches the address used on the manycastserver command for the designated manycast servers.  The NTP multicast address 224.0.1.1 assigned by  the  IANA  should
              NOT  be  used, unless specific means are taken to avoid spraying large areas of the Internet with these messages and causing a possibly massive implosion of replies at the
              sender.  The manycastserver command specifies that the local server is to operate in client mode with the remote servers that  are  discovered  as  the  result  of  broad-
              cast/multicast  messages.   The  client broadcasts a request message to the group address associated with the specified address and specifically enabled servers respond to
              these messages.  The client selects the servers providing the best time and continues as with the server command.  The remaining servers are discarded as if never heard.

       Options:

       autokey
              All packets sent to and received from the server or peer are to include authentication fields encrypted using the autokey scheme described in Authentication Options.

       burst  when the server is reachable, send a burst of eight packets instead of the usual one.  The packet spacing is normally 2 s; however, the spacing between the first and  sec-
              ond  packets can be changed with the calldelay command to allow additional time for a modem or ISDN call to complete.  This is designed to improve timekeeping quality with
              the server command and s addresses.

       iburst When the server is unreachable, send a burst of eight packets instead of the usual one.  The packet spacing is normally 2 s; however, the spacing  between  the  first  two
              packets  can  be  changed  with the calldelay command to allow additional time for a modem or ISDN call to complete.  This is designed to speed the initial synchronization
              acquisition with the server command and s addresses and when ntpd(8) is started with the -q option.

       key key
              All packets sent to and received from the server or peer are to include authentication fields encrypted using the specified key identifier with values  from  1  to  65535,
              inclusive.  The default is to include no encryption field.

       minpoll minpoll

       maxpoll maxpoll
              These  options  specify  the minimum and maximum poll intervals for NTP messages, as a power of 2 in seconds The maximum poll interval defaults to 10 (1,024 s), but can be
              increased by the maxpoll option to an upper limit of 17 (36.4 h).  The minimum poll interval defaults to 6 (64 s), but can be decreased by the minpoll option  to  a  lower
              limit of 4 (16 s).

       noselect
              Marks the server as unused, except for display purposes.  The server is discarded by the selection algroithm.

       preempt
              Says the association can be preempted.

       true   Marks the server as a truechimer.  Use this option only for testing.

       prefer Marks  the  server as preferred.  All other things being equal, this host will be chosen for synchronization among a set of correctly operating hosts.  See the "Mitigation
              Rules and the prefer Keyword" page (available as part of the HTML documentation provided in /usr/share/doc/ntp) for further information.

       true   Forces the association to always survive the selection and clustering algorithms.  This option should almost certainly only be used while testing an association.

       ttl ttl
              This option is used only with broadcast server and manycast client modes.  It specifies the time-to-live ttl to use on broadcast server and multicast server and the  maxi-
              mum  ttl for the expanding ring search with manycast client packets.  Selection of the proper value, which defaults to 127, is something of a black art and should be coor-
              dinated with the network administrator.

       version version
              Specifies the version number to be used for outgoing NTP packets.  Versions 1-4 are the choices, with version 4 the default.

       xleave Valid in peer and broadcast modes only, this flag enables interleave mode.

   Auxiliary Commands
       broadcastclient
              This command enables reception of broadcast server messages to any local interface (type b) address.  Upon receiving a message for the first  time,  the  broadcast  client
              measures the nominal server propagation delay using a brief client/server exchange with the server, then enters the broadcast client mode, in which it synchronizes to suc-
              ceeding broadcast messages.  Note that, in order to avoid accidental or malicious disruption in this mode, both the server and client should operate using symmetric-key or
              public-key authentication as described in Authentication Options.

       manycastserver address ...
              This  command enables reception of manycast client messages to the multicast group address(es) (type m) specified.  At least one address is required, but the NTP multicast
              address 224.0.1.1 assigned by the IANA should NOT be used, unless specific means are taken to limit the span of the reply and avoid a possibly  massive  implosion  at  the
              original sender.  Note that, in order to avoid accidental or malicious disruption in this mode, both the server and client should operate using symmetric-key or public-key
              authentication as described in Authentication Options.

       multicastclient address ...
              This command enables reception of multicast server messages to the multicast group address(es) (type m) specified.  Upon receiving a message for the first time, the multi-
              cast client measures the nominal server propagation delay using a brief client/server exchange with the server, then enters the broadcast client mode, in which it synchro-
              nizes to succeeding multicast messages.  Note that, in order to avoid accidental or malicious disruption in this mode, both the server and client should operate using sym-
              metric-key or public-key authentication as described in Authentication Options.

       mdnstries number
              If we are participating in mDNS, after we have synched for the first time we attempt to register with the mDNS system.  If that registration attempt fails, we try again at
              one minute intervals for up to mdnstries times.  After all, ntpd may be starting before mDNS.  The default value for mdnstries is 5.

