Access Control Support
       The ntpd(8) daemon implements a general purpose address/mask based restriction list.  The list contains address/match entries sorted first by increasing address  values  and  and
       then  by  increasing  mask values.  A match occurs when the bitwise AND of the mask and the packet source address is equal to the bitwise AND of the mask and address in the list.
       The list is searched in order with the last match found defining the restriction flags associated with the entry.  Additional information and examples can be found in the  "Notes
       on Configuring NTP and Setting up a NTP Subnet" page (available as part of the HTML documentation provided in /usr/share/doc/ntp).

       The  restriction facility was implemented in conformance with the access policies for the original NSFnet backbone time servers.  Later the facility was expanded to deflect cryp-
       tographic and clogging attacks.  While this facility may be useful for keeping unwanted or broken or malicious clients from congesting innocent servers, it should not be  consid-
       ered an alternative to the NTP authentication facilities.  Source address based restrictions are easily circumvented by a determined cracker.

       Clients can be denied service because they are explicitly included in the restrict list created by the restrict command or implicitly as the result of cryptographic or rate limit
       violations.  Cryptographic violations include certificate or identity verification failure; rate limit violations generally result from defective NTP  implementations  that  send
       packets  at abusive rates.  Some violations cause denied service only for the offending packet, others cause denied service for a timed period and others cause the denied service
       for an indefinite period.  When a client or network is denied access for an indefinite period, the only way at present to remove the restrictions is by restarting the server.

   The Kiss-of-Death Packet
       Ordinarily, packets denied service are simply dropped with no further action except incrementing statistics counters.  Sometimes a more proactive response is needed,  such  as  a
       server  message that explicitly requests the client to stop sending and leave a message for the system operator.  A special packet format has been created for this purpose called
       the "kiss-of-death" (KoD) packet.  KoD packets have the leap bits set unsynchronized and stratum set to zero and the reference identifier field set to a four-byte ASCII code.  If
       the  noserve  or  notrust  flag  of  the  matching  restrict list entry is set, the code is "DENY"; if the limited flag is set and the rate limit is exceeded, the code is "RATE".
       Finally, if a cryptographic violation occurs, the code is "CRYP".

       A client receiving a KoD performs a set of sanity checks to minimize security exposure, then updates the stratum and reference identifier peer variables, sets the  access  denied
       (TEST4)  bit  in the peer flash variable and sends a message to the log.  As long as the TEST4 bit is set, the client will send no further packets to the server.  The only way at
       present to recover from this condition is to restart the protocol at both the client and server.  This happens automatically at the client when the  association  times  out.   It
       will happen at the server only if the server operator cooperates.

   Access Control Commands
       discard [average avg] [minimum min] [monitor prob]
              Set  the  parameters  of  the limited facility which protects the server from client abuse.  The average subcommand specifies the minimum average packet spacing, while the
              minimum subcommand specifies the minimum packet spacing.  Packets that violate these minima are discarded and a kiss-o'-death packet returned if enabled.  The default min-
              imum average and minimum are 5 and 2, respectively.  The monitor subcommand specifies the probability of discard for packets that overflow the rate-control window.

       restrict address [mask mask] [ippeerlimit int] [flag ...]
              The  address argument expressed in dotted-quad form is the address of a host or network.  Alternatively, the address argument can be a valid host DNS name.  The mask argu-
              ment expressed in dotted-quad form defaults to 255.255.255.255, meaning that the address is treated as the address  of  an  individual  host.   A  default  entry  (address
              0.0.0.0,  mask  0.0.0.0)  is  always  included  and is always the first entry in the list.  Note that text string default, with no mask option, may be used to indicate the
              default entry.  The ippeerlimit directive limits the number of peer requests for each IP to int, where a value of -1 means "unlimited", the current default.  A value of  0
              means  "none".   There would usually be at most 1 peering request per IP, but if the remote peering requests are behind a proxy there could well be more than 1 per IP.  In
              the current implementation, flag always restricts access, i.e., an entry with no flags indicates that free access to the server is to be given.  The flags are not orthogo-
              nal,  in  that  more  restrictive flags will often make less restrictive ones redundant.  The flags can generally be classed into two categories, those which restrict time
              service and those which restrict informational queries and attempts to do run-time reconfiguration of the server.  One or more of the following flags may be specified:

              ignore Deny packets of all kinds, including ntpq(8) and ntpdc(8) queries.

              kod    If this flag is set when an access violation occurs, a kiss-o'-death (KoD) packet is sent.  KoD packets are rate limited to no more than one per second.  If another
                     KoD packet occurs within one second after the last one, the packet is dropped.

              limited
                     Deny  service  if  the  packet  spacing violates the lower limits specified in the discard command.  A history of clients is kept using the monitoring capability of
                     ntpd(8).  Thus, monitoring is always active as long as there is a restriction entry with the limited flag.

              lowpriotrap
                     Declare traps set by matching hosts to be low priority.  The number of traps a server can maintain is limited (the current limit is 3).  Traps are usually  assigned
                     on a first come, first served basis, with later trap requestors being denied service.  This flag modifies the assignment algorithm by allowing low priority traps to
                     be overridden by later requests for normal priority traps.

              noepeer
                     Deny ephemeral peer requests, even if they come from an authenticated source.  Note that the ability to use a symmetric key for authentication may be restricted  to
                     one  or  more  IPs  or  subnets  via  the third field of the ntp.keys file.  This restriction is not enabled by default, to maintain backward compatability.  Expect
                     noepeer to become the default in ntp-4.4.

              nomodify
                     Deny ntpq(8) and ntpdc(8) queries which attempt to modify the state of the server (i.e., run time reconfiguration).  Queries which return information are permitted.

              noquery
                     Deny ntpq(8) and ntpdc(8) queries.  Time service is not affected.

              nopeer Deny unauthenticated packets which would result in mobilizing a new association.  This includes broadcast and symmetric active packets when a configured association
                     does  not  exist.   It  also  includes  pool associations, so if you want to use servers from a pool directive and also want to use nopeer by default, you'll want a
                     restrict source ...  line as well that does not include the nopeer directive.

              noserve
                     Deny all packets except ntpq(8) and ntpdc(8) queries.

              notrap Decline to provide mode 6 control message trap service to matching hosts.  The trap service is a subsystem of the ntpq(8) control message protocol which is intended
                     for use by remote event logging programs.

              notrust
                     Deny service unless the packet is cryptographically authenticated.

              ntpport
                     This is actually a match algorithm modifier, rather than a restriction flag.  Its presence causes the restriction entry to be matched only if the source port in the
                     packet is the standard NTP UDP port (123).  Both ntpport and non-ntpport may be specified.  The ntpport is considered more specific and is sorted later in the list.

              version
                     Deny packets that do not match the current NTP version.

       Default restriction list entries with the flags ignore, interface, ntpport, for each of the local host's interface addresses are inserted into the table at startup to prevent the
       server  from  attempting to synchronize to its own time.  A default entry is also always present, though if it is otherwise unconfigured; no flags are associated with the default
       entry (i.e., everything besides your own NTP server is unrestricted).

