6. PostScript Printing Troubleshooting		*postscript-print-trouble*
									*E621*
Usually the only sign of a problem when printing with PostScript is that your
printout does not appear.  If you are lucky you may get a printed page that
tells you the PostScript operator that generated the error that prevented the
print job completing.

There are a number of possible causes as to why the printing may have failed:

- Wrong version of the prolog resource file.  The prolog resource file
  contains some PostScript that Vim needs to be able to print.  Each version
  of Vim needs one particular version.  Make sure you have correctly installed
  the runtime files, and don't have any old versions of a file called prolog
  in the print directory in your 'runtimepath' directory.

- Paper size.  Some PostScript printers will abort printing a file if they do
  not support the requested paper size.  By default Vim uses A4 paper.  Find
  out what size paper your printer normally uses and set the appropriate paper
  size with 'printoptions'.  If you cannot find the name of the paper used,
  measure a sheet and compare it with the table of supported paper sizes listed
  for 'printoptions', using the paper that is closest in both width AND height.
  Note: The dimensions of actual paper may vary slightly from the ones listed.
  If there is no paper listed close enough, then you may want to try psresize
  from PSUtils, discussed below.

- Two-sided printing (duplex).  Normally a PostScript printer that does not
  support two-sided printing will ignore any request to do it.  However, some
  printers may abort the job altogether.  Try printing with duplex turned off.
  Note: Duplex prints can be achieved manually using PS utils - see below.

- Collated printing.  As with Duplex printing, most PostScript printers that
  do not support collating printouts will ignore a request to do so.  Some may
  not.  Try printing with collation turned off.

- Syntax highlighting.  Some print management code may prevent the generated
  PostScript file from being printed on a black and white printer when syntax
  highlighting is turned on, even if solid black is the only color used.  Try
  printing with syntax highlighting turned off.

A safe printoptions setting to try is: >

	:set printoptions=paper:A4,duplex:off,collate:n,syntax:n

Replace "A4" with the paper size that best matches your printer paper.

