7.2. Extensions to the IP Module

   To support the reception of multicast IP datagrams, the IP module
   must be extended to maintain a list of host group memberships
   associated with each network interface.  An incoming datagram
   destined to one of those groups is processed exactly the same way as
   datagrams destined to one of the host's individual addresses.

   Incoming datagrams destined to groups to which the host does not
   belong are discarded without generating any error report or log
   entry.  On hosts with more than one network interface, if a datagram
   arrives via one interface, destined for a group to which the host
   belongs only on a different interface, the datagram is quietly
   discarded.  (These cases should occur only as a result of inadequate
   multicast address filtering in a local network module.)

   An incoming datagram is not rejected for having an IP time-to-live of
   1 (i.e., the time-to-live should not automatically be decremented on
   arriving datagrams that are not being forwarded).  An incoming
   datagram with an IP host group address in its source address field is
   quietly discarded.  An ICMP error message (Destination Unreachable,
   Time Exceeded, Parameter Problem, Source Quench, or Redirect) is
   never generated in response to a datagram destined to an IP host
   group.

   The list of host group memberships is updated in response to
   JoinHostGroup and LeaveHostGroup requests from upper-layer protocols.
   Each membership should have an associated reference count or similar
   mechanism to handle multiple requests to join and leave the same
   group.  On the first request to join and the last request to leave a
   group on a given interface, the local network module for that
   interface is notified, so that it may update its multicast reception
   filter (see section 7.3).

   The IP module must also be extended to implement the IGMP protocol,
   specified in Appendix I. IGMP is used to keep neighboring multicast
   routers informed of the host group memberships present on a
   particular local network.  To support IGMP, every level 2 host must
   join the "all-hosts" group (address 224.0.0.1) on each network
   interface at initialization time and must remain a member for as long
   as the host is active.




Deering                                                         [Page 8]

RFC 1112          Host Extensions for IP Multicasting        August 1989


   (Datagrams addressed to the all-hosts group are recognized as a
   special case by the multicast routers and are never forwarded beyond
   a single network, regardless of their time-to-live.  Thus, the all-
   hosts address may not be used as an internet-wide broadcast address.
   For the purpose of IGMP, membership in the all-hosts group is really
   necessary only while the host belongs to at least one other group.
   However, it is specified that the host shall remain a member of the
   all-hosts group at all times because (1) it is simpler, (2) the
   frequency of reception of unnecessary IGMP queries should be low
   enough that overhead is negligible, and (3) the all-hosts address may
   serve other routing-oriented purposes, such as advertising the
   presence of gateways or resolving local addresses.)

