9.  Security Considerations

   Running DNS over HTTPS relies on the security of the underlying HTTP
   transport.  This mitigates classic amplification attacks for UDP-
   based DNS.  Implementations utilizing HTTP/2 benefit from the TLS
   profile defined in Section 9.2 of [RFC7540].

   Session-level encryption has well-known weaknesses with respect to
   traffic analysis, which might be particularly acute when dealing with
   DNS queries.  HTTP/2 provides further advice about the use of
   compression (see Section 10.6 of [RFC7540]) and padding (see
   Section 10.7 of [RFC7540]).  DoH servers can also add DNS padding
   [RFC7830] if the DoH client requests it in the DNS query.  An
   experimental effort to offer guidance on choosing the padding length
   can be found in [RFC8467].

   The HTTPS connection provides transport security for the interaction
   between the DoH server and client, but it does not provide the
   response integrity of DNS data provided by DNSSEC.  DNSSEC and DoH
   are independent and fully compatible protocols, each solving
   different problems.  The use of one does not diminish the need nor
   the usefulness of the other.  It is the choice of a client to either
   perform full DNSSEC validation of answers or to trust the DoH server
   to do DNSSEC validation and inspect the AD (Authentic Data) bit in
   the returned message to determine whether an answer was authentic or
   not.  As noted in Section 4.2, different response media types will
   provide more or less information from a DNS response, so this choice
   may be affected by the response media type.





Hoffman & McManus            Standards Track                   [Page 14]

RFC 8484              DNS Queries over HTTPS (DoH)          October 2018


   Section 5.1 describes the interaction of this protocol with HTTP
   caching.  An adversary that can control the cache used by the client
   can affect that client's view of the DNS.  This is no different than
   the security implications of HTTP caching for other protocols that
   use HTTP.

   In the absence of DNSSEC information, a DoH server can give a client
   invalid data in response to a DNS query.  Section 3 disallows the use
   of DoH DNS responses that do not originate from configured servers.
   This prohibition does not guarantee protection against invalid data,
   but it does reduce the risk.

