XORG(7)                             Miscellaneous Information Manual                             XORG(7)

NAME
       X.Org, XProjectTeam - X.Org Group information

SYNOPSIS
       Release 6.5 and 6.6 of X Version 11 was brought to you by The X.Org Group.  Release 6.4 of X Ver-
       sion 11 was brought to you by The X Project Team.

DESCRIPTION
       The Open Group's X Project Team was created as the successor to the X Consortium, Inc., after the
       X  Consortium  ceased  operations  and  transferred ownership of X11 to The Open Group. The X.Org
       Group (hereinafter called "X.Org") was created as the successor to The X Project Team  after  the
       The  Open  Group ceased operating The X Project Team. The purpose of X.Org was to foster develop-
       ment, evolution, and maintenance of the X Window System.  X.Org operates under the corporate  um-
       brella of The Open Group.

       The  X  Consortium  was  an  independent, not-for-profit Delaware membership corporation.  It was
       formed in 1993 as the successor to the MIT X Consortium.

       The X Window System was created in the mid-1980s at the Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technology.
       In  1988, MIT formed a member-funded consortium to provide the technical and administrative lead-
       ership necessary to support further development of the X Window System.  In  1992,  MIT  and  the
       membership decided it was in their best interests to move the consortium out of MIT and create an
       independent, stand-alone organization.  All rights to the X Window System were assigned by MIT to
       X  Consortium,  Inc. on January 1, 1994.  On December 31, 1996 the X Consortium, Inc.  closed its
       doors and all rights to the X Window System were assigned to The Open Group.

ADDRESS
       To reach The Open Group public World Wide Web server, use http://www.opengroup.org/.

       To reach The X.Org public World Wide Web server, use http://www.x.org/.

       To reach The X.Org public ftp machine, use anonymous ftp at ftp://ftp.x.org/

FULL MEMBERS
       Attachmate
       Barco
       Compaq
       Hewlett-Packard
       Hummingbird
       IBM
       ICS
       Metro Link
       MITRE
       Shiman Associates
       Silicon Graphics Incorporated
       Starnet Communications
       Sun Microsystems
       The XFree86 Project
       US Navy
       WRQ
       Xi Graphics

X Version 11                                 xorg-docs 1.7.1                                     XORG(7)
