XSECURITY(7)                        Miscellaneous Information Manual                        XSECURITY(7)

NAME
       Xsecurity - X display access control

OVERVIEW
       X provides mechanism for implementing many access control systems.  The sample implementation in-
       cludes five mechanisms:
           Host Access                   Simple host-based access control.
           MIT-MAGIC-COOKIE-1            Shared plain-text "cookies".
           XDM-AUTHORIZATION-1           Secure DES based private-keys.
           SUN-DES-1                     Based on Sun's secure rpc system.
           Server Interpreted            Server-dependent methods of access control
       Not all of these are available in all builds or implementations.

ACCESS SYSTEM DESCRIPTIONS
       Host Access
              Any client on a host in the host access control list is allowed access to  the  X  server.
              This  system can work reasonably well in an environment where everyone trusts everyone, or
              when only a single person can log in to a given machine, and is easy to use when the  list
              of hosts used is small.  This system does not work well when multiple people can log in to
              a single machine and mutual trust does not exist.  The list of allowed hosts is stored  in
              the X server and can be changed with the xhost command.   The list is stored in the server
              by network address, not host names, so is not automatically updated if a host changes  ad-
              dress  while  the  server is running.  When using the more secure mechanisms listed below,
              the host list is normally configured to be the empty list, so that  only  authorized  pro-
              grams  can  connect  to  the display.   See the GRANTING ACCESS section of the Xserver man
              page for details on how this list is initialized at server startup.

       MIT-MAGIC-COOKIE-1
              When using MIT-MAGIC-COOKIE-1, the client sends a 128 bit "cookie" along with the  connec-
              tion  setup  information.   If  the  cookie presented by the client matches one that the X
              server has, the connection is allowed access.  The cookie is chosen so that it is hard  to
              guess;  xdm generates such cookies automatically when this form of access control is used.
              The user's copy of the cookie is usually stored in the .Xauthority file in the home direc-
              tory, although the environment variable XAUTHORITY can be used to specify an alternate lo-
              cation.  Xdm automatically passes a cookie to the server for each new login  session,  and
              stores the cookie in the user file at login.

              The  cookie  is transmitted on the network without encryption, so there is nothing to pre-
              vent a network snooper from obtaining the data and using  it  to  gain  access  to  the  X
              server.  This system is useful in an environment where many users are running applications
              on the same machine and want to avoid interference from each other, with the  caveat  that
              this  control  is only as good as the access control to the physical network.  In environ-
              ments where network-level snooping is difficult, this system can work reasonably well.

       XDM-AUTHORIZATION-1
              Sites who compile with DES support can use a DES-based  access  control  mechanism  called
              XDM-AUTHORIZATION-1.  It is similar in usage to MIT-MAGIC-COOKIE-1 in that a key is stored
              in the .Xauthority file and is shared with the X server.  However, this  key  consists  of
              two parts - a 56 bit DES encryption key and 64 bits of random data used as the authentica-
              tor.

              When connecting to the X server, the application generates 192 bits of data  by  combining
              the current time in seconds (since 00:00 1/1/1970 GMT) along with 48 bits of "identifier".
              For TCP/IPv4 connections, the identifier is the address plus port number; for  local  con-
              nections  it  is  the process ID and 32 bits to form a unique id (in case multiple connec-
              tions to the same server are made from a single process).  This 192 bit packet is then en-
              crypted  using  the  DES  key and sent to the X server, which is able to verify if the re-
              questor is authorized to connect by decrypting with the same DES key  and  validating  the
              authenticator and additional data.  This system is useful in many environments where host-
              based access control is inappropriate and where network security cannot be ensured.

       SUN-DES-1
              Recent versions of SunOS (and some other systems) have included a secure public key remote
              procedure  call system.  This system is based on the notion of a network principal; a user
              name and NIS domain pair.  Using this system, the X server can securely discover  the  ac-
              tual user name of the requesting process.  It involves encrypting data with the X server's
              public key, and so the identity of the user who started the X server is needed  for  this;
              this  identity is stored in the .Xauthority file.  By extending the semantics of "host ad-
              dress" to include this notion of network principal, this form of access  control  is  very
              easy to use.

              To allow access by a new user, use xhost.  For example,
                  xhost keith@ ruth@mit.edu
              adds "keith" from the NIS domain of the local machine, and "ruth" in the "mit.edu" NIS do-
              main.  For keith or ruth to successfully connect to the display, they must add the princi-
              pal who started the server to their .Xauthority file.  For example:
                  xauth add expo.lcs.mit.edu:0 SUN-DES-1 unix.expo.lcs.mit.edu@our.domain.edu
              This system only works on machines which support Secure RPC, and only for users which have
              set up the appropriate public/private key pairs on their system.  See the Secure RPC docu-
              mentation  for  details.   To  access the display from a remote host, you may have to do a
              keylogin on the remote host first.

       Server Interpreted
              The Server Interpreted method provides two strings to the X server for entry in the access
              control  list.   The first string represents the type of entry, and the second string con-
              tains the value of the entry.  These strings are interpreted by the server  and  different
              implementations and builds may support different types of entries.  The types supported in
              the sample implementation are defined in the SERVER INTERPRETED ACCESS TYPES  section  be-
              low.   Entries of this type can be manipulated via xhost.  For example to add a Server In-
              terpreted entry of type localuser with a value of  root,  the  command  is  xhost  +si:lo-
              caluser:root.

THE AUTHORIZATION FILE
       Except  for Host Access control and Server Interpreted Access Control, each of these systems uses
       data stored in the .Xauthority file to generate the correct  authorization  information  to  pass
       along  to the X server at connection setup.  MIT-MAGIC-COOKIE-1 and XDM-AUTHORIZATION-1 store se-
       cret data in the file; so anyone who can read the file can gain access to  the  X  server.   SUN-
       DES-1 stores only the identity of the principal who started the server (unix.hostname@domain when
       the server is started by xdm), and so it is not useful to anyone not authorized to connect to the
       server.

       Each  entry  in the .Xauthority file matches a certain connection family (TCP/IP, DECnet or local
       connections) and X display name (hostname plus display number).  This allows multiple  authoriza-
       tion  entries  for  different  displays to share the same data file.  A special connection family
       (FamilyWild, value 65535) causes an entry to match every display, allowing the entry to  be  used
       for  all  connections.  Each entry additionally contains the authorization name and whatever pri-
       vate authorization data is needed by that authorization type to generate the correct  information
       at connection setup time.

       The  xauth  program manipulates the .Xauthority file format.  It understands the semantics of the
       connection families and address formats, displaying them in an easy  to  understand  format.   It
       also  understands that SUN-DES-1 uses string values for the authorization data, and displays them
       appropriately.

       The X server (when running on a workstation) reads authorization information  from  a  file  name
       passed  on  the command line with the -auth option (see the Xserver manual page).  The authoriza-
       tion entries in the file are used to control access to the server.  In each of the  authorization
       schemes  listed  above,  the  data  needed by the server to initialize an authorization scheme is
       identical to the data needed by the client to generate the appropriate authorization information,
       so the same file can be used by both processes.  This is especially useful when xinit is used.

       MIT-MAGIC-COOKIE-1
              This  system  uses 128 bits of data shared between the user and the X server.  Any collec-
              tion of bits can be used.  Xdm generates  these  keys  using  a  cryptographically  secure
              pseudo random number generator, and so the key to the next session cannot be computed from
              the current session key.

       XDM-AUTHORIZATION-1
              This system uses two pieces of information.  First, 64 bits of random data,  second  a  56
              bit  DES  encryption key (again, random data) stored in 8 bytes, the last byte of which is
              ignored.  Xdm generates these keys using the same random number generator as is  used  for
              MIT-MAGIC-COOKIE-1.

       SUN-DES-1
              This system needs a string representation of the principal which identifies the associated
              X server.  This information is used to encrypt the client's authority information when  it
              is sent to the X server.  When xdm starts the X server, it uses the root principal for the
              machine   on   which   it    is    running    (unix.hostname@domain,    e.g.,    "unix.ex-
              pire.lcs.mit.edu@our.domain.edu").   Putting the correct principal name in the .Xauthority
              file causes Xlib to generate the appropriate authorization information  using  the  secure
              RPC library.

SERVER INTERPRETED ACCESS TYPES
       The sample implementation includes several Server Interpreted mechanisms:
           IPv6                          IPv6 literal addresses
           hostname                      Network host name
           localuser                     Local connection user id
           localgroup                    Local connection group id

       IPv6   A  literal  IPv6  address as defined in IETF RFC 3513.   This allows adding IPv6 addresses
              when the X server supports IPv6, but the xhost client was compiled without IPv6 support.

       hostname
              The value must be a hostname as defined in IETF RFC 2396. Due to  Mobile  IP  and  dynamic
              DNS,  the  name  service is consulted at connection authentication time, unlike the tradi-
              tional host access control list which only contains numeric addresses and does  not  auto-
              matically  update  when  a  host's address changes.  Note that this definition of hostname
              does not allow use of literal IP addresses.

       localuser & localgroup
              On systems which can determine in a secure fashion the credentials of  a  client  process,
              the "localuser" and "localgroup" authentication methods provide access based on those cre-
              dentials.  The format of the values provided is platform specific.  For POSIX & UNIX plat-
              forms,  if the value starts with the character '#', the rest of the string is treated as a
              decimal uid or gid, otherwise the string is defined as a user name or group name.

              If your system supports this method and you use it, be  warned  that  some  programs  that
              proxy  connections and are setuid or setgid may get authenticated as the uid or gid of the
              proxy process.  For instance, some versions of ssh will be authenticated as the user root,
              no  matter  what  user is running the ssh client, so on systems with such software, adding
              access for localuser:root may allow wider access than intended to the X display.

FILES
       .Xauthority

SEE ALSO
       X(7), xdm(1), xauth(1), xhost(1), xinit(1), Xserver(1)

X Version 11                                 xorg-docs 1.7.1                                XSECURITY(7)
