14.8 Registers and Memory
=========================

Here are the RTL expression types for describing access to machine
registers and to main memory.

'(reg:M N)'
     For small values of the integer N (those that are less than
     'FIRST_PSEUDO_REGISTER'), this stands for a reference to machine
     register number N: a "hard register".  For larger values of N, it
     stands for a temporary value or "pseudo register".  The compiler's
     strategy is to generate code assuming an unlimited number of such
     pseudo registers, and later convert them into hard registers or
     into memory references.

     M is the machine mode of the reference.  It is necessary because
     machines can generally refer to each register in more than one
     mode.  For example, a register may contain a full word but there
     may be instructions to refer to it as a half word or as a single
     byte, as well as instructions to refer to it as a floating point
     number of various precisions.

     Even for a register that the machine can access in only one mode,
     the mode must always be specified.

     The symbol 'FIRST_PSEUDO_REGISTER' is defined by the machine
     description, since the number of hard registers on the machine is
     an invariant characteristic of the machine.  Note, however, that
     not all of the machine registers must be general registers.  All
     the machine registers that can be used for storage of data are
     given hard register numbers, even those that can be used only in
     certain instructions or can hold only certain types of data.

     A hard register may be accessed in various modes throughout one
     function, but each pseudo register is given a natural mode and is
     accessed only in that mode.  When it is necessary to describe an
     access to a pseudo register using a nonnatural mode, a 'subreg'
     expression is used.

     A 'reg' expression with a machine mode that specifies more than one
     word of data may actually stand for several consecutive registers.
     If in addition the register number specifies a hardware register,
     then it actually represents several consecutive hardware registers
     starting with the specified one.

     Each pseudo register number used in a function's RTL code is
     represented by a unique 'reg' expression.

     Some pseudo register numbers, those within the range of
     'FIRST_VIRTUAL_REGISTER' to 'LAST_VIRTUAL_REGISTER' only appear
     during the RTL generation phase and are eliminated before the
     optimization phases.  These represent locations in the stack frame
     that cannot be determined until RTL generation for the function has
     been completed.  The following virtual register numbers are
     defined:

     'VIRTUAL_INCOMING_ARGS_REGNUM'
          This points to the first word of the incoming arguments passed
          on the stack.  Normally these arguments are placed there by
          the caller, but the callee may have pushed some arguments that
          were previously passed in registers.

          When RTL generation is complete, this virtual register is
          replaced by the sum of the register given by
          'ARG_POINTER_REGNUM' and the value of 'FIRST_PARM_OFFSET'.

     'VIRTUAL_STACK_VARS_REGNUM'
          If 'FRAME_GROWS_DOWNWARD' is defined to a nonzero value, this
          points to immediately above the first variable on the stack.
          Otherwise, it points to the first variable on the stack.

          'VIRTUAL_STACK_VARS_REGNUM' is replaced with the sum of the
          register given by 'FRAME_POINTER_REGNUM' and the value
          'TARGET_STARTING_FRAME_OFFSET'.

     'VIRTUAL_STACK_DYNAMIC_REGNUM'
          This points to the location of dynamically allocated memory on
          the stack immediately after the stack pointer has been
          adjusted by the amount of memory desired.

          This virtual register is replaced by the sum of the register
          given by 'STACK_POINTER_REGNUM' and the value
          'STACK_DYNAMIC_OFFSET'.

     'VIRTUAL_OUTGOING_ARGS_REGNUM'
          This points to the location in the stack at which outgoing
          arguments should be written when the stack is pre-pushed
          (arguments pushed using push insns should always use
          'STACK_POINTER_REGNUM').

          This virtual register is replaced by the sum of the register
          given by 'STACK_POINTER_REGNUM' and the value
          'STACK_POINTER_OFFSET'.

'(subreg:M1 REG:M2 BYTENUM)'

     'subreg' expressions are used to refer to a register in a machine
     mode other than its natural one, or to refer to one register of a
     multi-part 'reg' that actually refers to several registers.

     Each pseudo register has a natural mode.  If it is necessary to
     operate on it in a different mode, the register must be enclosed in
     a 'subreg'.

     There are currently three supported types for the first operand of
     a 'subreg':
        * pseudo registers This is the most common case.  Most 'subreg's
          have pseudo 'reg's as their first operand.

        * mem 'subreg's of 'mem' were common in earlier versions of GCC
          and are still supported.  During the reload pass these are
          replaced by plain 'mem's.  On machines that do not do
          instruction scheduling, use of 'subreg's of 'mem' are still
          used, but this is no longer recommended.  Such 'subreg's are
          considered to be 'register_operand's rather than
          'memory_operand's before and during reload.  Because of this,
          the scheduling passes cannot properly schedule instructions
          with 'subreg's of 'mem', so for machines that do scheduling,
          'subreg's of 'mem' should never be used.  To support this, the
          combine and recog passes have explicit code to inhibit the
          creation of 'subreg's of 'mem' when 'INSN_SCHEDULING' is
          defined.

          The use of 'subreg's of 'mem' after the reload pass is an area
          that is not well understood and should be avoided.  There is
          still some code in the compiler to support this, but this code
          has possibly rotted.  This use of 'subreg's is discouraged and
          will most likely not be supported in the future.

        * hard registers It is seldom necessary to wrap hard registers
          in 'subreg's; such registers would normally reduce to a single
          'reg' rtx.  This use of 'subreg's is discouraged and may not
          be supported in the future.

     'subreg's of 'subreg's are not supported.  Using
     'simplify_gen_subreg' is the recommended way to avoid this problem.

     'subreg's come in two distinct flavors, each having its own usage
     and rules:

     Paradoxical subregs
          When M1 is strictly wider than M2, the 'subreg' expression is
          called "paradoxical".  The canonical test for this class of
          'subreg' is:

               paradoxical_subreg_p (M1, M2)

          Paradoxical 'subreg's can be used as both lvalues and rvalues.
          When used as an lvalue, the low-order bits of the source value
          are stored in REG and the high-order bits are discarded.  When
          used as an rvalue, the low-order bits of the 'subreg' are
          taken from REG while the high-order bits may or may not be
          defined.

          The high-order bits of rvalues are defined in the following
          circumstances:

             * 'subreg's of 'mem' When M2 is smaller than a word, the
               macro 'LOAD_EXTEND_OP', can control how the high-order
               bits are defined.

             * 'subreg' of 'reg's The upper bits are defined when
               'SUBREG_PROMOTED_VAR_P' is true.
               'SUBREG_PROMOTED_UNSIGNED_P' describes what the upper
               bits hold.  Such subregs usually represent local
               variables, register variables and parameter pseudo
               variables that have been promoted to a wider mode.

          BYTENUM is always zero for a paradoxical 'subreg', even on
          big-endian targets.

          For example, the paradoxical 'subreg':

               (set (subreg:SI (reg:HI X) 0) Y)

          stores the lower 2 bytes of Y in X and discards the upper 2
          bytes.  A subsequent:

               (set Z (subreg:SI (reg:HI X) 0))

          would set the lower two bytes of Z to Y and set the upper two
          bytes to an unknown value assuming 'SUBREG_PROMOTED_VAR_P' is
          false.

     Normal subregs
          When M1 is at least as narrow as M2 the 'subreg' expression is
          called "normal".

          Normal 'subreg's restrict consideration to certain bits of
          REG.  For this purpose, REG is divided into
          individually-addressable blocks in which each block has:

               REGMODE_NATURAL_SIZE (M2)

          bytes.  Usually the value is 'UNITS_PER_WORD'; that is, most
          targets usually treat each word of a register as being
          independently addressable.

          There are two types of normal 'subreg'.  If M1 is known to be
          no bigger than a block, the 'subreg' refers to the
          least-significant part (or "lowpart") of one block of REG.  If
          M1 is known to be larger than a block, the 'subreg' refers to
          two or more complete blocks.

          When used as an lvalue, 'subreg' is a block-based accessor.
          Storing to a 'subreg' modifies all the blocks of REG that
          overlap the 'subreg', but it leaves the other blocks of REG
          alone.

          When storing to a normal 'subreg' that is smaller than a
          block, the other bits of the referenced block are usually left
          in an undefined state.  This laxity makes it easier to
          generate efficient code for such instructions.  To represent
          an instruction that preserves all the bits outside of those in
          the 'subreg', use 'strict_low_part' or 'zero_extract' around
          the 'subreg'.

          BYTENUM must identify the offset of the first byte of the
          'subreg' from the start of REG, assuming that REG is laid out
          in memory order.  The memory order of bytes is defined by two
          target macros, 'WORDS_BIG_ENDIAN' and 'BYTES_BIG_ENDIAN':

             * 'WORDS_BIG_ENDIAN', if set to 1, says that byte number
               zero is part of the most significant word; otherwise, it
               is part of the least significant word.

             * 'BYTES_BIG_ENDIAN', if set to 1, says that byte number
               zero is the most significant byte within a word;
               otherwise, it is the least significant byte within a
               word.

          On a few targets, 'FLOAT_WORDS_BIG_ENDIAN' disagrees with
          'WORDS_BIG_ENDIAN'.  However, most parts of the compiler treat
          floating point values as if they had the same endianness as
          integer values.  This works because they handle them solely as
          a collection of integer values, with no particular numerical
          value.  Only real.c and the runtime libraries care about
          'FLOAT_WORDS_BIG_ENDIAN'.

          Thus,

               (subreg:HI (reg:SI X) 2)

          on a 'BYTES_BIG_ENDIAN', 'UNITS_PER_WORD == 4' target is the
          same as

               (subreg:HI (reg:SI X) 0)

          on a little-endian, 'UNITS_PER_WORD == 4' target.  Both
          'subreg's access the lower two bytes of register X.

          Note that the byte offset is a polynomial integer; it may not
          be a compile-time constant on targets with variable-sized
          modes.  However, the restrictions above mean that there are
          only a certain set of acceptable offsets for a given
          combination of M1 and M2.  The compiler can always tell which
          blocks a valid subreg occupies, and whether the subreg is a
          lowpart of a block.

     A 'MODE_PARTIAL_INT' mode behaves as if it were as wide as the
     corresponding 'MODE_INT' mode, except that it has an unknown number
     of undefined bits.  For example:

          (subreg:PSI (reg:SI 0) 0)

     accesses the whole of '(reg:SI 0)', but the exact relationship
     between the 'PSImode' value and the 'SImode' value is not defined.
     If we assume 'REGMODE_NATURAL_SIZE (DImode) <= 4', then the
     following two 'subreg's:

          (subreg:PSI (reg:DI 0) 0)
          (subreg:PSI (reg:DI 0) 4)

     represent independent 4-byte accesses to the two halves of '(reg:DI
     0)'.  Both 'subreg's have an unknown number of undefined bits.

     If 'REGMODE_NATURAL_SIZE (PSImode) <= 2' then these two 'subreg's:

          (subreg:HI (reg:PSI 0) 0)
          (subreg:HI (reg:PSI 0) 2)

     represent independent 2-byte accesses that together span the whole
     of '(reg:PSI 0)'.  Storing to the first 'subreg' does not affect
     the value of the second, and vice versa.  '(reg:PSI 0)' has an
     unknown number of undefined bits, so the assignment:

          (set (subreg:HI (reg:PSI 0) 0) (reg:HI 4))

     does not guarantee that '(subreg:HI (reg:PSI 0) 0)' has the value
     '(reg:HI 4)'.

     The rules above apply to both pseudo REGs and hard REGs.  If the
     semantics are not correct for particular combinations of M1, M2 and
     hard REG, the target-specific code must ensure that those
     combinations are never used.  For example:

          TARGET_CAN_CHANGE_MODE_CLASS (M2, M1, CLASS)

     must be false for every class CLASS that includes REG.

     GCC must be able to determine at compile time whether a subreg is
     paradoxical, whether it occupies a whole number of blocks, or
     whether it is a lowpart of a block.  This means that certain
     combinations of variable-sized mode are not permitted.  For
     example, if M2 holds N 'SI' values, where N is greater than zero,
     it is not possible to form a 'DI' 'subreg' of it; such a 'subreg'
     would be paradoxical when N is 1 but not when N is greater than 1.

     The first operand of a 'subreg' expression is customarily accessed
     with the 'SUBREG_REG' macro and the second operand is customarily
     accessed with the 'SUBREG_BYTE' macro.

     It has been several years since a platform in which
     'BYTES_BIG_ENDIAN' not equal to 'WORDS_BIG_ENDIAN' has been tested.
     Anyone wishing to support such a platform in the future may be
     confronted with code rot.

'(scratch:M)'
     This represents a scratch register that will be required for the
     execution of a single instruction and not used subsequently.  It is
     converted into a 'reg' by either the local register allocator or
     the reload pass.

     'scratch' is usually present inside a 'clobber' operation (*note
     Side Effects::).

'(cc0)'
     This refers to the machine's condition code register.  It has no
     operands and may not have a machine mode.  There are two ways to
     use it:

        * To stand for a complete set of condition code flags.  This is
          best on most machines, where each comparison sets the entire
          series of flags.

          With this technique, '(cc0)' may be validly used in only two
          contexts: as the destination of an assignment (in test and
          compare instructions) and in comparison operators comparing
          against zero ('const_int' with value zero; that is to say,
          'const0_rtx').

        * To stand for a single flag that is the result of a single
          condition.  This is useful on machines that have only a single
          flag bit, and in which comparison instructions must specify
          the condition to test.

          With this technique, '(cc0)' may be validly used in only two
          contexts: as the destination of an assignment (in test and
          compare instructions) where the source is a comparison
          operator, and as the first operand of 'if_then_else' (in a
          conditional branch).

     There is only one expression object of code 'cc0'; it is the value
     of the variable 'cc0_rtx'.  Any attempt to create an expression of
     code 'cc0' will return 'cc0_rtx'.

     Instructions can set the condition code implicitly.  On many
     machines, nearly all instructions set the condition code based on
     the value that they compute or store.  It is not necessary to
     record these actions explicitly in the RTL because the machine
     description includes a prescription for recognizing the
     instructions that do so (by means of the macro 'NOTICE_UPDATE_CC').
     *Note Condition Code::.  Only instructions whose sole purpose is to
     set the condition code, and instructions that use the condition
     code, need mention '(cc0)'.

     On some machines, the condition code register is given a register
     number and a 'reg' is used instead of '(cc0)'.  This is usually the
     preferable approach if only a small subset of instructions modify
     the condition code.  Other machines store condition codes in
     general registers; in such cases a pseudo register should be used.

     Some machines, such as the SPARC and RS/6000, have two sets of
     arithmetic instructions, one that sets and one that does not set
     the condition code.  This is best handled by normally generating
     the instruction that does not set the condition code, and making a
     pattern that both performs the arithmetic and sets the condition
     code register (which would not be '(cc0)' in this case).  For
     examples, search for 'addcc' and 'andcc' in 'sparc.md'.

'(pc)'
     This represents the machine's program counter.  It has no operands
     and may not have a machine mode.  '(pc)' may be validly used only
     in certain specific contexts in jump instructions.

     There is only one expression object of code 'pc'; it is the value
     of the variable 'pc_rtx'.  Any attempt to create an expression of
     code 'pc' will return 'pc_rtx'.

     All instructions that do not jump alter the program counter
     implicitly by incrementing it, but there is no need to mention this
     in the RTL.

'(mem:M ADDR ALIAS)'
     This RTX represents a reference to main memory at an address
     represented by the expression ADDR.  M specifies how large a unit
     of memory is accessed.  ALIAS specifies an alias set for the
     reference.  In general two items are in different alias sets if
     they cannot reference the same memory address.

     The construct '(mem:BLK (scratch))' is considered to alias all
     other memories.  Thus it may be used as a memory barrier in
     epilogue stack deallocation patterns.

'(concatM RTX RTX)'
     This RTX represents the concatenation of two other RTXs.  This is
     used for complex values.  It should only appear in the RTL attached
     to declarations and during RTL generation.  It should not appear in
     the ordinary insn chain.

'(concatnM [RTX ...])'
     This RTX represents the concatenation of all the RTX to make a
     single value.  Like 'concat', this should only appear in
     declarations, and not in the insn chain.

File: gccint.info,  Node: Arithmetic,  Next: Comparisons,  Prev: Regs and Memory,  Up: RTL

