14.13 Conversions
=================

All conversions between machine modes must be represented by explicit
conversion operations.  For example, an expression which is the sum of a
byte and a full word cannot be written as '(plus:SI (reg:QI 34) (reg:SI
80))' because the 'plus' operation requires two operands of the same
machine mode.  Therefore, the byte-sized operand is enclosed in a
conversion operation, as in

     (plus:SI (sign_extend:SI (reg:QI 34)) (reg:SI 80))

 The conversion operation is not a mere placeholder, because there may
be more than one way of converting from a given starting mode to the
desired final mode.  The conversion operation code says how to do it.

 For all conversion operations, X must not be 'VOIDmode' because the
mode in which to do the conversion would not be known.  The conversion
must either be done at compile-time or X must be placed into a register.

'(sign_extend:M X)'
     Represents the result of sign-extending the value X to machine mode
     M.  M must be a fixed-point mode and X a fixed-point value of a
     mode narrower than M.

'(zero_extend:M X)'
     Represents the result of zero-extending the value X to machine mode
     M.  M must be a fixed-point mode and X a fixed-point value of a
     mode narrower than M.

'(float_extend:M X)'
     Represents the result of extending the value X to machine mode M.
     M must be a floating point mode and X a floating point value of a
     mode narrower than M.

'(truncate:M X)'
     Represents the result of truncating the value X to machine mode M.
     M must be a fixed-point mode and X a fixed-point value of a mode
     wider than M.

'(ss_truncate:M X)'
     Represents the result of truncating the value X to machine mode M,
     using signed saturation in the case of overflow.  Both M and the
     mode of X must be fixed-point modes.

'(us_truncate:M X)'
     Represents the result of truncating the value X to machine mode M,
     using unsigned saturation in the case of overflow.  Both M and the
     mode of X must be fixed-point modes.

'(float_truncate:M X)'
     Represents the result of truncating the value X to machine mode M.
     M must be a floating point mode and X a floating point value of a
     mode wider than M.

'(float:M X)'
     Represents the result of converting fixed point value X, regarded
     as signed, to floating point mode M.

'(unsigned_float:M X)'
     Represents the result of converting fixed point value X, regarded
     as unsigned, to floating point mode M.

'(fix:M X)'
     When M is a floating-point mode, represents the result of
     converting floating point value X (valid for mode M) to an integer,
     still represented in floating point mode M, by rounding towards
     zero.

     When M is a fixed-point mode, represents the result of converting
     floating point value X to mode M, regarded as signed.  How rounding
     is done is not specified, so this operation may be used validly in
     compiling C code only for integer-valued operands.

'(unsigned_fix:M X)'
     Represents the result of converting floating point value X to fixed
     point mode M, regarded as unsigned.  How rounding is done is not
     specified.

'(fract_convert:M X)'
     Represents the result of converting fixed-point value X to
     fixed-point mode M, signed integer value X to fixed-point mode M,
     floating-point value X to fixed-point mode M, fixed-point value X
     to integer mode M regarded as signed, or fixed-point value X to
     floating-point mode M.  When overflows or underflows happen, the
     results are undefined.

'(sat_fract:M X)'
     Represents the result of converting fixed-point value X to
     fixed-point mode M, signed integer value X to fixed-point mode M,
     or floating-point value X to fixed-point mode M.  When overflows or
     underflows happen, the results are saturated to the maximum or the
     minimum.

'(unsigned_fract_convert:M X)'
     Represents the result of converting fixed-point value X to integer
     mode M regarded as unsigned, or unsigned integer value X to
     fixed-point mode M.  When overflows or underflows happen, the
     results are undefined.

'(unsigned_sat_fract:M X)'
     Represents the result of converting unsigned integer value X to
     fixed-point mode M.  When overflows or underflows happen, the
     results are saturated to the maximum or the minimum.

File: gccint.info,  Node: RTL Declarations,  Next: Side Effects,  Prev: Conversions,  Up: RTL

