1.6 Design goals

   The following list gives general design goals for DHCP.

      o DHCP should be a mechanism rather than a policy.  DHCP must
        allow local system administrators control over configuration
        parameters where desired; e.g., local system administrators
        should be able to enforce local policies concerning allocation
        and access to local resources where desired.







Droms                       Standards Track                     [Page 6]

RFC 2131          Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol         March 1997


      o Clients should require no manual configuration.  Each client
        should be able to discover appropriate local configuration
        parameters without user intervention and incorporate those
        parameters into its own configuration.

      o Networks should require no manual configuration for individual
        clients.  Under normal circumstances, the network manager
        should not have to enter any per-client configuration
        parameters.

      o DHCP should not require a server on each subnet.  To allow for
        scale and economy, DHCP must work across routers or through the
        intervention of BOOTP relay agents.

      o A DHCP client must be prepared to receive multiple responses
        to a request for configuration parameters.  Some installations
        may include multiple, overlapping DHCP servers to enhance
        reliability and increase performance.

      o DHCP must coexist with statically configured, non-participating
        hosts and with existing network protocol implementations.

      o DHCP must interoperate with the BOOTP relay agent behavior as
        described by RFC 951 and by RFC 1542 [21].

      o DHCP must provide service to existing BOOTP clients.

   The following list gives design goals specific to the transmission of
   the network layer parameters.  DHCP must:

      o Guarantee that any specific network address will not be in
        use by more than one DHCP client at a time,

      o Retain DHCP client configuration across DHCP client reboot.  A
        DHCP client should, whenever possible, be assigned the same
        configuration parameters (e.g., network address) in response
        to each request,

      o Retain DHCP client configuration across server reboots, and,
        whenever possible, a DHCP client should be assigned the same
        configuration parameters despite restarts of the DHCP mechanism,

      o Allow automated assignment of configuration parameters to new
        clients to avoid hand configuration for new clients,

      o Support fixed or permanent allocation of configuration
        parameters to specific clients.




Droms                       Standards Track                     [Page 7]

RFC 2131          Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol         March 1997


