3.5 Client parameters in DHCP

   Not all clients require initialization of all parameters listed in
   Appendix A.  Two techniques are used to reduce the number of
   parameters transmitted from the server to the client.  First, most of
   the parameters have defaults defined in the Host Requirements RFCs;
   if the client receives no parameters from the server that override
   the defaults, a client uses those default values.  Second, in its
   initial DHCPDISCOVER or DHCPREQUEST message, a client may provide the
   server with a list of specific parameters the client is interested
   in.  If the client includes a list of parameters in a DHCPDISCOVER
   message, it MUST include that list in any subsequent DHCPREQUEST
   messages.

   The client SHOULD include the 'maximum DHCP message size' option to
   let the server know how large the server may make its DHCP messages.
   The parameters returned to a client may still exceed the space
   allocated to options in a DHCP message.  In this case, two additional
   options flags (which must appear in the 'options' field of the
   message) indicate that the 'file' and 'sname' fields are to be used
   for options.

   The client can inform the server which configuration parameters the
   client is interested in by including the 'parameter request list'
   option.  The data portion of this option explicitly lists the options
   requested by tag number.

   In addition, the client may suggest values for the network address
   and lease time in the DHCPDISCOVER message.  The client may include
   the 'requested IP address' option to suggest that a particular IP
   address be assigned, and may include the 'IP address lease time'
   option to suggest the lease time it would like.  Other options
   representing "hints" at configuration parameters are allowed in a
   DHCPDISCOVER or DHCPREQUEST message.  However, additional options may



Droms                       Standards Track                    [Page 21]

RFC 2131          Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol         March 1997


   be ignored by servers, and multiple servers may, therefore, not
   return identical values for some options.  The 'requested IP address'
   option is to be filled in only in a DHCPREQUEST message when the
   client is verifying network parameters obtained previously. The
   client fills in the 'ciaddr' field only when correctly configured
   with an IP address in BOUND, RENEWING or REBINDING state.

   If a server receives a DHCPREQUEST message with an invalid 'requested
   IP address', the server SHOULD respond to the client with a DHCPNAK
   message and may choose to report the problem to the system
   administrator.  The server may include an error message in the
   'message' option.

