4.2 DHCP server administrative controls

   DHCP servers are not required to respond to every DHCPDISCOVER and
   DHCPREQUEST message they receive.  For example, a network
   administrator, to retain stringent control over the clients attached
   to the network, may choose to configure DHCP servers to respond only
   to clients that have been previously registered through some external
   mechanism.  The DHCP specification describes only the interactions
   between clients and servers when the clients and servers choose to
   interact; it is beyond the scope of the DHCP specification to
   describe all of the administrative controls that system
   administrators might want to use.  Specific DHCP server



Droms                       Standards Track                    [Page 25]

RFC 2131          Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol         March 1997


   implementations may incorporate any controls or policies desired by a
   network administrator.

   In some environments, a DHCP server will have to consider the values
   of the vendor class options included in DHCPDISCOVER or DHCPREQUEST
   messages when determining the correct parameters for a particular
   client.

   A DHCP server needs to use some unique identifier to associate a
   client with its lease.  The client MAY choose to explicitly provide
   the identifier through the 'client identifier' option.  If the client
   supplies a 'client identifier', the client MUST use the same 'client
   identifier' in all subsequent messages, and the server MUST use that
   identifier to identify the client.  If the client does not provide a
   'client identifier' option, the server MUST use the contents of the
   'chaddr' field to identify the client. It is crucial for a DHCP
   client to use an identifier unique within the subnet to which the
   client is attached in the 'client identifier' option.  Use of
   'chaddr' as the client's unique identifier may cause unexpected
   results, as that identifier may be associated with a hardware
   interface that could be moved to a new client.  Some sites may choose
   to use a manufacturer's serial number as the 'client identifier', to
   avoid unexpected changes in a clients network address due to transfer
   of hardware interfaces among computers.  Sites may also choose to use
   a DNS name as the 'client identifier', causing address leases to be
   associated with the DNS name rather than a specific hardware box.

   DHCP clients are free to use any strategy in selecting a DHCP server
   among those from which the client receives a DHCPOFFER message.  The
   client implementation of DHCP SHOULD provide a mechanism for the user
   to select directly the 'vendor class identifier' values.

