4.3.2 DHCPREQUEST message

   A DHCPREQUEST message may come from a client responding to a
   DHCPOFFER message from a server, from a client verifying a previously
   allocated IP address or from a client extending the lease on a
   network address.  If the DHCPREQUEST message contains a 'server
   identifier' option, the message is in response to a DHCPOFFER
   message.  Otherwise, the message is a request to verify or extend an
   existing lease.  If the client uses a 'client identifier' in a
   DHCPREQUEST message, it MUST use that same 'client identifier' in all
   subsequent messages. If the client included a list of requested
   parameters in a DHCPDISCOVER message, it MUST include that list in
   all subsequent messages.







Droms                       Standards Track                    [Page 30]

RFC 2131          Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol         March 1997


   Any configuration parameters in the DHCPACK message SHOULD NOT
   conflict with those in the earlier DHCPOFFER message to which the
   client is responding.  The client SHOULD use the parameters in the
   DHCPACK message for configuration.

   Clients send DHCPREQUEST messages as follows:

   o DHCPREQUEST generated during SELECTING state:

      Client inserts the address of the selected server in 'server
      identifier', 'ciaddr' MUST be zero, 'requested IP address' MUST be
      filled in with the yiaddr value from the chosen DHCPOFFER.

      Note that the client may choose to collect several DHCPOFFER
      messages and select the "best" offer.  The client indicates its
      selection by identifying the offering server in the DHCPREQUEST
      message.  If the client receives no acceptable offers, the client
      may choose to try another DHCPDISCOVER message.  Therefore, the
      servers may not receive a specific DHCPREQUEST from which they can
      decide whether or not the client has accepted the offer.  Because
      the servers have not committed any network address assignments on
      the basis of a DHCPOFFER, servers are free to reuse offered
      network addresses in response to subsequent requests.  As an
      implementation detail, servers SHOULD NOT reuse offered addresses
      and may use an implementation-specific timeout mechanism to decide
      when to reuse an offered address.

   o DHCPREQUEST generated during INIT-REBOOT state:

      'server identifier' MUST NOT be filled in, 'requested IP address'
      option MUST be filled in with client's notion of its previously
      assigned address. 'ciaddr' MUST be zero. The client is seeking to
      verify a previously allocated, cached configuration. Server SHOULD
      send a DHCPNAK message to the client if the 'requested IP address'
      is incorrect, or is on the wrong network.

      Determining whether a client in the INIT-REBOOT state is on the
      correct network is done by examining the contents of 'giaddr', the
      'requested IP address' option, and a database lookup. If the DHCP
      server detects that the client is on the wrong net (i.e., the
      result of applying the local subnet mask or remote subnet mask (if
      'giaddr' is not zero) to 'requested IP address' option value
      doesn't match reality), then the server SHOULD send a DHCPNAK
      message to the client.







Droms                       Standards Track                    [Page 31]

RFC 2131          Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol         March 1997


      If the network is correct, then the DHCP server should check if
      the client's notion of its IP address is correct. If not, then the
      server SHOULD send a DHCPNAK message to the client. If the DHCP
      server has no record of this client, then it MUST remain silent,
      and MAY output a warning to the network administrator. This
      behavior is necessary for peaceful coexistence of non-
      communicating DHCP servers on the same wire.

      If 'giaddr' is 0x0 in the DHCPREQUEST message, the client is on
      the same subnet as the server.  The server MUST broadcast the
      DHCPNAK message to the 0xffffffff broadcast address because the
      client may not have a correct network address or subnet mask, and
      the client may not be answering ARP requests.

      If 'giaddr' is set in the DHCPREQUEST message, the client is on a
      different subnet.  The server MUST set the broadcast bit in the
      DHCPNAK, so that the relay agent will broadcast the DHCPNAK to the
      client, because the client may not have a correct network address
      or subnet mask, and the client may not be answering ARP requests.

   o DHCPREQUEST generated during RENEWING state:

      'server identifier' MUST NOT be filled in, 'requested IP address'
      option MUST NOT be filled in, 'ciaddr' MUST be filled in with
      client's IP address. In this situation, the client is completely
      configured, and is trying to extend its lease. This message will
      be unicast, so no relay agents will be involved in its
      transmission.  Because 'giaddr' is therefore not filled in, the
      DHCP server will trust the value in 'ciaddr', and use it when
      replying to the client.

      A client MAY choose to renew or extend its lease prior to T1.  The
      server may choose not to extend the lease (as a policy decision by
      the network administrator), but should return a DHCPACK message
      regardless.

   o DHCPREQUEST generated during REBINDING state:

      'server identifier' MUST NOT be filled in, 'requested IP address'
      option MUST NOT be filled in, 'ciaddr' MUST be filled in with
      client's IP address. In this situation, the client is completely
      configured, and is trying to extend its lease. This message MUST
      be broadcast to the 0xffffffff IP broadcast address.  The DHCP
      server SHOULD check 'ciaddr' for correctness before replying to
      the DHCPREQUEST.






Droms                       Standards Track                    [Page 32]

RFC 2131          Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol         March 1997


      The DHCPREQUEST from a REBINDING client is intended to accommodate
      sites that have multiple DHCP servers and a mechanism for
      maintaining consistency among leases managed by multiple servers.
      A DHCP server MAY extend a client's lease only if it has local
      administrative authority to do so.

