2.9.  Use of the Authority and Additional Sections

   Unlike the DNS, LLMNR is a peer-to-peer protocol and does not have a
   concept of delegation.  In LLMNR, the NS resource record type may be
   stored and queried for like any other type, but it has no special
   delegation semantics as it does in the DNS.  Responders MAY have NS
   records associated with the names for which they are authoritative,
   but they SHOULD NOT include these NS records in the authority
   sections of responses.

   Responders SHOULD insert an SOA record into the authority section of
   a negative response, to facilitate negative caching as specified in
   [RFC2308].  The TTL of this record is set from the minimum of the
   MINIMUM field of the SOA record and the TTL of the SOA itself, and
   indicates how long a resolver may cache the negative answer.  The
   owner name of the SOA record (MNAME) MUST be set to the query name.
   The RNAME, SERIAL, REFRESH, RETRY, and EXPIRE values MUST be ignored
   by senders.  Negative responses without SOA records SHOULD NOT be
   cached.

   In LLMNR, the additional section is primarily intended for use by
   EDNS0, TSIG, and SIG(0).  As a result, unless the 'C' bit is set,
   senders MAY only include pseudo RR-types in the additional section of
   a query; unless the 'C' bit is set, responders MUST ignore the
   additional section of queries containing other RR types.





Aboba, et al.                Informational                     [Page 14]

RFC 4795                         LLMNR                      January 2007


   In queries where the 'C' bit is set, the sender SHOULD include the
   conflicting RRs in the additional section.  Since conflict
   notifications are advisory, responders SHOULD log information from
   the additional section, but otherwise MUST ignore the additional
   section.

   Senders MUST NOT cache RRs from the authority or additional section
   of a response as answers, though they may be used for other purposes,
   such as negative caching.

