3.1.  LLMNR Configuration

   LLMNR usage MAY be configured manually or automatically on a per-
   interface basis.  By default, LLMNR responders SHOULD be enabled on
   all interfaces, at all times.  Where this is considered undesirable,
   LLMNR SHOULD be disabled, so that hosts will neither listen on the
   link-scope multicast address, nor will they send queries to that
   address.

   Where DHCPv4 or DHCPv6 is implemented, DHCP options can be used to
   configure LLMNR on an interface.  The LLMNR Enable Option, described
   in [LLMNREnable], can be used to explicitly enable or disable use of
   LLMNR on an interface.  The LLMNR Enable Option does not determine
   whether, or in which order, DNS itself is used for name resolution.
   The order in which various name resolution mechanisms should be used
   can be specified using the Name Service Search Option (NSSO) for DHCP
   [RFC2937], using the LLMNR Enable Option code carried in the NSSO
   data.

   In situations where LLMNR is configured as a secondary name
   resolution protocol on a dual-stack host, behavior will be governed
   by both IPv4 and IPv6 configuration mechanisms.  Since IPv4 and IPv6
   utilize distinct configuration mechanisms, it is possible for a
   dual-stack host to be configured with the address of a DNS server
   over IPv4, while remaining unconfigured with a DNS server suitable
   for use over IPv6.

   In these situations, a dual-stack host will send AAAA queries to the
   configured DNS server over IPv4.  However, an IPv6-only host
   unconfigured with a DNS server suitable for use over IPv6 will be
   unable to resolve names using DNS.  Automatic IPv6 DNS configuration
   mechanisms (such as [RFC3315] and [DNSDisc]) are not yet widely
   deployed, and not all DNS servers support IPv6.  Therefore, lack of
   IPv6 DNS configuration may be a common problem in the short term, and
   LLMNR may prove useful in enabling link-local name resolution over
   IPv6.

   Where a DHCPv4 server is available but not a DHCPv6 server [RFC3315],
   IPv6-only hosts may not be configured with a DNS server.  Where there
   is no DNS server authoritative for the name of a host or the
   authoritative DNS server does not support dynamic client update over
   IPv6 or DHCPv6-based dynamic update, then an IPv6-only host will not
   be able to do DNS dynamic update, and other hosts will not be able to
   resolve its name.







Aboba, et al.                Informational                     [Page 17]

RFC 4795                         LLMNR                      January 2007


   For example, if the configured DNS server responds to an AAAA RR
   query sent over IPv4 or IPv6 with an authoritative name error
   (RCODE=3) or RCODE=0 and an empty answer section, then an AAAA RR
   query sent using LLMNR over IPv6 may be successful in resolving the
   name of an IPv6-only host on the local link.

   Similarly, if a DHCPv4 server is available providing DNS server
   configuration, and DNS server(s) exist which are authoritative for
   the A RRs of local hosts and support either dynamic client update
   over IPv4 or DHCPv4-based dynamic update, then the names of local
   IPv4 hosts can be resolved over IPv4 without LLMNR.  However, if no
   DNS server is authoritative for the names of local hosts, or the
   authoritative DNS server(s) do not support dynamic update, then LLMNR
   enables link-local name resolution over IPv4.

   It is possible that DNS configuration mechanisms will go in and out
   of service.  In these circumstances, it is possible for hosts within
   an administrative domain to be inconsistent in their DNS
   configuration.

   For example, where DHCP is used for configuring DNS servers, one or
   more DHCP servers can fail.  As a result, hosts configured prior to
   the outage will be configured with a DNS server, while hosts
   configured after the outage will not.  Alternatively, it is possible
   for the DNS configuration mechanism to continue functioning while
   configured DNS servers fail.

   An outage in the DNS configuration mechanism may result in hosts
   continuing to use LLMNR even once the outage is repaired.  Since
   LLMNR only enables link-local name resolution, this represents a
   degradation in capabilities.  As a result, hosts without a configured
   DNS server may wish to periodically attempt to obtain DNS
   configuration if permitted by the configuration mechanism in use.  In
   the absence of other guidance, a default retry interval of one (1)
   minute is RECOMMENDED.

