2.3.  Responder Behavior

   An LLMNR response MUST be sent to the sender via unicast.

   Upon configuring an IP address, responders typically will synthesize
   corresponding A, AAAA and PTR RRs so as to be able to respond to
   LLMNR queries for these RRs.  An SOA RR is synthesized only when a
   responder has another RR in addition to the SOA RR;  the SOA RR MUST
   NOT be the only RR that a responder has.  However, in general,
   whether RRs are manually or automatically created is an
   implementation decision.

   For example, a host configured to have computer name "host1" and to
   be a member of the "example.com" domain, with IPv4 address 192.0.2.1
   and IPv6 address 2001:0DB8::1:2:3:FF:FE:4:5:6, might be authoritative
   for the following records:

   host1. IN A 192.0.2.1
          IN AAAA 2001:0DB8::1:2:3:FF:FE:4:5:6

   host1.example.com. IN A 192.0.2.1
          IN AAAA 2001:0DB8::1:2:3:FF:FE:4:5:6

   1.2.0.192.in-addr.arpa. IN PTR host1.
          IN PTR host1.example.com.

   6.0.5.0.4.0.E.F.F.F.3.0.2.0.1.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.8.b.d.0.1.0.0.2.
   ip6.arpa IN PTR host1.  (line split for formatting reasons)
            IN PTR host1.example.com.

   An LLMNR responder might be further manually configured with the name
   of a local mail server with an MX RR included in the "host1." and
   "host1.example.com." records.

   In responding to queries:

   (a)  Responders MUST listen on UDP port 5355 on the link-scope
        multicast address(es) defined in Section 2, and on TCP port 5355
        on the unicast address(es) that could be set as the source
        address(es) when the responder responds to the LLMNR query.

   (b)  Responders MUST direct responses to the port from which the
        query was sent.  When queries are received via TCP, this is an
        inherent part of the transport protocol.  For queries received
        by UDP, the responder MUST take note of the source port and use
        that as the destination port in the response.  Responses MUST
        always be sent from the port to which they were directed.




Aboba, et al.                Informational                      [Page 9]

RFC 4795                         LLMNR                      January 2007


   (c)  Responders MUST respond to LLMNR queries for names and addresses
        for which they are authoritative.  This applies to both forward
        and reverse lookups, with the exception of queries with the 'C'
        bit set, which do not elicit a response.

   (d)  Responders MUST NOT respond to LLMNR queries for names for which
        they are not authoritative.

   (e)  Responders MUST NOT respond using data from the LLMNR or DNS
        resolver cache.

   (f)  If a responder is authoritative for a name, it MUST respond with
        RCODE=0 and an empty answer section, if the type of query does
        not match an RR that the responder has.

   As an example, a host configured to respond to LLMNR queries for the
   name "foo.example.com."  is authoritative for the name
   "foo.example.com.".  On receiving an LLMNR query for an A RR with the
   name "foo.example.com.", the host authoritatively responds with an A
   RR(s) that contain IP address(es) in the RDATA of the resource
   record.  If the responder has an AAAA RR, but no A RR, and an A RR
   query is received, the responder would respond with RCODE=0 and an
   empty answer section.

   In conventional DNS terminology, a DNS server authoritative for a
   zone is authoritative for all the domain names under the zone apex
   except for the branches delegated into separate zones.  Contrary to
   conventional DNS terminology, an LLMNR responder is authoritative
   only for the zone apex.

   For example, the host "foo.example.com." is not authoritative for the
   name "child.foo.example.com." unless the host is configured with
   multiple names, including "foo.example.com."  and
   "child.foo.example.com.".  As a result, "foo.example.com." cannot
   respond to an LLMNR query for "child.foo.example.com." with RCODE=3
   (authoritative name error).  The purpose of limiting the name
   authority scope of a responder is to prevent complications that could
   be caused by coexistence of two or more hosts with the names
   representing child and parent (or grandparent) nodes in the DNS tree,
   for example, "foo.example.com." and "child.foo.example.com.".

   Without the restriction on authority, an LLMNR query for an A
   resource record for the name "child.foo.example.com." would result in
   two authoritative responses: RCODE=3 (authoritative name error)
   received from "foo.example.com.", and a requested A record from
   "child.foo.example.com.".  To prevent this ambiguity, LLMNR-enabled
   hosts could perform a dynamic update of the parent (or grandparent)
   zone with a delegation to a child zone; for example, a host



Aboba, et al.                Informational                     [Page 10]

RFC 4795                         LLMNR                      January 2007


   "child.foo.example.com." could send a dynamic update for the NS and
   glue A record to "foo.example.com.".  However, this approach
   significantly complicates implementation of LLMNR and would not be
   acceptable for lightweight hosts.

