2.7.  Retransmission and Jitter

   An LLMNR sender uses the timeout interval LLMNR_TIMEOUT to determine
   when to retransmit an LLMNR query.  An LLMNR sender SHOULD either
   estimate the LLMNR_TIMEOUT for each interface or set a reasonably
   high initial timeout.  Suggested constants are described in Section
   7.

   If an LLMNR query sent over UDP is not resolved within LLMNR_TIMEOUT,
   then a sender SHOULD repeat the transmission of the query in order to
   ensure that it was received by a host capable of responding to it.
   An LLMNR query SHOULD NOT be sent more than three times.

   Where LLMNR queries are sent using TCP, retransmission is handled by
   the transport layer.  Queries with the 'C' bit set MUST be sent using
   multicast UDP and MUST NOT be retransmitted.

   An LLMNR sender cannot know in advance if a query sent using
   multicast will receive no response, one response, or more than one
   response.  An LLMNR sender MUST wait for LLMNR_TIMEOUT if no response
   has been received, or if it is necessary to collect all potential
   responses, such as if a uniqueness verification query is being made.
   Otherwise, an LLMNR sender SHOULD consider a multicast query answered
   after the first response is received, if that response has the 'C'
   bit clear.

   However, if the first response has the 'C' bit set, then the sender
   SHOULD wait for LLMNR_TIMEOUT + JITTER_INTERVAL in order to collect
   all possible responses.  When multiple valid answers are received,
   they may first be concatenated, and then treated in the same manner
   that multiple RRs received from the same DNS server would.  A unicast
   query sender considers the query answered after the first response is
   received.







Aboba, et al.                Informational                     [Page 13]

RFC 4795                         LLMNR                      January 2007


   Since it is possible for a response with the 'C' bit clear to be
   followed by a response with the 'C' bit set, an LLMNR sender SHOULD
   be prepared to process additional responses for the purposes of
   conflict detection, even after it has considered a query answered.

   In order to avoid synchronization, the transmission of each LLMNR
   query and response SHOULD be delayed by a time randomly selected from
   the interval 0 to JITTER_INTERVAL.  This delay MAY be avoided by
   responders responding with names that they have previously determined
   to be UNIQUE (see Section 4 for details).

