3.  Usage Model

   By default, an LLMNR sender SHOULD send LLMNR queries only for
   single-label names.  Stub resolvers supporting both DNS and LLMNR
   SHOULD avoid sending DNS queries for single-label names, in order to
   reduce unnecessary DNS queries.  An LLMNR sender SHOULD NOT be
   enabled to send a query for any name, except where security
   mechanisms (described in Section 5.3) can be utilized.  An LLMNR
   query SHOULD only be sent for the originally requested name; a
   searchlist is not used to form additional LLMNR queries.

   LLMNR is a peer-to-peer name resolution protocol that is not intended
   as a replacement for DNS; rather, it enables name resolution in
   scenarios in which conventional DNS name resolution is not possible.
   Where LLMNR security is not enabled as described in Section 5.3, if
   LLMNR is given higher priority than DNS among the enabled name
   resolution mechanisms, this would allow the LLMNR cache, once
   poisoned, to take precedence over the DNS cache.  As a result, use of
   LLMNR as a primary name resolution mechanism is NOT RECOMMENDED.

   Instead, it is recommended that LLMNR be utilized as a secondary name
   resolution mechanism, for use in situations where hosts are not
   configured with the address of a DNS server, where the DNS server is
   unavailable or unreachable, where there is no DNS server
   authoritative for the name of a host, or where the authoritative DNS
   server does not have the desired RRs.

   When LLMNR is configured as a secondary name resolution mechanism,
   LLMNR queries SHOULD only be sent when all of the following
   conditions are met:











Aboba, et al.                Informational                     [Page 15]

RFC 4795                         LLMNR                      January 2007


   (1) No manual or automatic DNS configuration has been performed.  If
       DNS server address(es) have been configured, a host SHOULD
       attempt to reach DNS servers over all protocols on which DNS
       server address(es) are configured, prior to sending LLMNR
       queries.  For dual-stack hosts configured with DNS server
       address(es) for one protocol but not another, this implies that
       DNS queries SHOULD be sent over the protocol configured with a
       DNS server, prior to sending LLMNR queries.

   (2) All attempts to resolve the name via DNS on all interfaces have
       failed after exhausting the searchlist.  This can occur because
       DNS servers did not respond, or because they responded to DNS
       queries with RCODE=3 (Authoritative Name Error) or RCODE=0, and
       an empty answer section.  Where a single resolver call generates
       DNS queries for A and AAAA RRs, an implementation MAY choose not
       to send LLMNR queries if any of the DNS queries is successful.

   Where LLMNR is used as a secondary name resolution mechanism, its
   usage is in part determined by the behavior of DNS resolver
   implementations; robust resolver implementations are more likely to
   avoid unnecessary LLMNR queries.

   [RFC1536] describes common DNS implementation errors and fixes.  If
   the proposed fixes are implemented, unnecessary LLMNR queries will be
   reduced substantially, so implementation of [RFC1536] is recommended.

   For example, [RFC1536] Section 1 describes issues with retransmission
   and recommends implementation of a retransmission policy based on
   round trip estimates, with exponential back-off.  [RFC1536] Section 4
   describes issues with failover, and recommends that resolvers try
   another server when they don't receive a response to a query.  These
   policies are likely to avoid unnecessary LLMNR queries.

   [RFC1536] Section 3 describes zero answer bugs, which if addressed
   will also reduce unnecessary LLMNR queries.

   [RFC1536] Section 6 describes name error bugs and recommended
   searchlist processing that will reduce unnecessary RCODE=3
   (authoritative name) errors, thereby also reducing unnecessary LLMNR
   queries.

   As noted in [DNSPerf], a significant fraction of DNS queries do not
   receive a response, or result in negative responses due to missing
   inverse mappings or NS records that point to nonexistent or
   inappropriate hosts.  Therefore, a reduction in missing records can
   prevent many unnecessary LLMNR queries.





Aboba, et al.                Informational                     [Page 16]

RFC 4795                         LLMNR                      January 2007


