4.1.  Uniqueness Verification

   Prior to sending an LLMNR response with the 'T' bit clear, a
   responder configured with a UNIQUE name MUST verify that there is no
   other host within the scope of LLMNR query propagation that is
   authoritative for the same name on that interface.

   Once a responder has verified that its name is UNIQUE, if it receives
   an LLMNR query for that name with the 'C' bit clear, it MUST respond
   with the 'T' bit clear.  Prior to verifying that its name is UNIQUE,
   a responder MUST set the 'T' bit in responses.

   Uniqueness verification is carried out when the host:

     - starts up or is rebooted

     - wakes from sleep (if the network interface was inactive during
       sleep)

     - is configured to respond to LLMNR queries on an interface enabled
       for transmission and reception of IP traffic

     - is configured to respond to LLMNR queries using additional UNIQUE
       resource records

     - verifies the acquisition of a new IP address and configuration on
       an interface

   To verify uniqueness, a responder MUST send an LLMNR query with the
   'C' bit clear, over all protocols on which it responds to LLMNR
   queries (IPv4 and/or IPv6).  It is RECOMMENDED that responders verify
   uniqueness of a name by sending a query for the name with type='ANY'.

   If no response is received, the sender retransmits the query, as
   specified in Section 2.7.  If a response is received, the sender MUST
   check if the source address matches the address of any of its
   interfaces; if so, then the response is not considered a conflict,
   since it originates from the sender.  To avoid triggering conflict
   detection, a responder that detects that it is connected to the same
   link on multiple interfaces SHOULD set the 'C' bit in responses.





Aboba, et al.                Informational                     [Page 19]

RFC 4795                         LLMNR                      January 2007


   If a response is received with the 'T' bit clear, the responder MUST
   NOT use the name in response to LLMNR queries received over any
   protocol (IPv4 or IPv6).  If a response is received with the 'T' bit
   set, the responder MUST check if the source IP address in the
   response is lexicographically smaller than the source IP address in
   the query.  If so, the responder MUST NOT use the name in response to
   LLMNR queries received over any protocol (IPv4 or IPv6).  For the
   purpose of uniqueness verification, the contents of the answer
   section in a response is irrelevant.

   Periodically carrying out uniqueness verification in an attempt to
   detect name conflicts is not necessary, wastes network bandwidth, and
   may actually be detrimental.  For example, if network links are
   joined only briefly, and are separated again before any new
   communication is initiated, temporary conflicts are benign and no
   forced reconfiguration is required.  LLMNR responders SHOULD NOT
   periodically attempt uniqueness verification.

