4.2.  Conflict Detection and Defense

   Hosts on disjoint network links may configure the same name for use
   with LLMNR.  If these separate network links are later joined or
   bridged together, then there may be multiple hosts that are now on
   the same link, trying to use the same name.

   In order to enable ongoing detection of name conflicts, when an LLMNR
   sender receives multiple LLMNR responses to a query, it MUST check if
   the 'C' bit is clear in any of the responses.  If so, the sender

   SHOULD send another query for the same name, type, and class, this
   time with the 'C' bit set, with the potentially conflicting resource
   records included in the additional section.

   Queries with the 'C' bit set are considered advisory, and responders
   MUST verify the existence of a conflict before acting on it.  A
   responder receiving a query with the 'C' bit set MUST NOT respond.

   If the query is for a UNIQUE name, then the responder MUST send its
   own query for the same name, type, and class, with the 'C' bit clear.
   If a response is received, the sender MUST check if the source
   address matches the address of any of its interfaces; if so, then the
   response is not considered a conflict, since it originates from the
   sender.  To avoid triggering conflict detection, a responder that
   detects that it is connected to the same link on multiple interfaces
   SHOULD set the 'C' bit in responses.






Aboba, et al.                Informational                     [Page 20]

RFC 4795                         LLMNR                      January 2007


   An LLMNR responder MUST NOT ignore conflicts once detected, and
   SHOULD log them.  Upon detecting a conflict, an LLMNR responder MUST
   immediately stop using the conflicting name in response to LLMNR
   queries received over any supported protocol, if the source IP
   address in the response is lexicographically smaller than the source
   IP address in the uniqueness verification query.

   After stopping the use of a name, the responder MAY elect to
   configure a new name.  However, since name reconfiguration may be
   disruptive, this is not required, and a responder may have been
   configured to respond to multiple names so that alternative names may
   already be available.  A host that has stopped the use of a name may
   attempt uniqueness verification again after the expiration of the TTL
   of the conflicting response.

