1.  Introduction

   There are a number of methods that an end-host can use to determine
   its first hop router towards a particular IP destination.  These
   include running (or snooping) a dynamic routing protocol such as
   Routing Information Protocol [RIP] or OSPF version 2 [OSPF], running
   an ICMP router discovery client [DISC] or using a statically
   configured default route.

   Running a dynamic routing protocol on every end-host may be
   infeasible for a number of reasons, including administrative
   overhead, processing overhead, security issues, or lack of a protocol
   implementation for some platforms.  Neighbor or router discovery



Knight, et. al.             Standards Track                     [Page 2]

RFC 2338                          VRRP                        April 1998


   protocols may require active participation by all hosts on a network,
   leading to large timer values to reduce protocol overhead in the face
   of large numbers of hosts.  This can result in a significant delay in
   the detection of a lost (i.e., dead) neighbor, which may introduce
   unacceptably long "black hole" periods.

   The use of a statically configured default route is quite popular; it
   minimizes configuration and processing overhead on the end-host and
   is supported by virtually every IP implementation.  This mode of
   operation is likely to persist as dynamic host configuration
   protocols [DHCP] are deployed, which typically provide configuration
   for an end-host IP address and default gateway.  However, this
   creates a single point of failure.  Loss of the default router
   results in a catastrophic event, isolating all end-hosts that are
   unable to detect any alternate path that may be available.

   The Virtual Router Redundancy Protocol (VRRP) is designed to
   eliminate the single point of failure inherent in the static default
   routed environment.  VRRP specifies an election protocol that
   dynamically assigns responsibility for a virtual router to one of the
   VRRP routers on a LAN.  The VRRP router controlling the IP
   address(es) associated with a virtual router is called the Master,
   and forwards packets sent to these IP addresses.  The election
   process provides dynamic fail-over in the forwarding responsibility
   should the Master become unavailable.  Any of the virtual router's IP
   addresses on a LAN can then be used as the default first hop router
   by end-hosts.  The advantage gained from using VRRP is a higher
   availability default path without requiring configuration of dynamic
   routing or router discovery protocols on every end-host.

   VRRP provides a function similar to a Cisco Systems, Inc. proprietary
   protocol named Hot Standby Router Protocol (HSRP) [HSRP] and to a
   Digital Equipment Corporation, Inc. proprietary protocol named IP
   Standby Protocol [IPSTB].

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this
   document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC 2119].

   The IESG/IETF take no position regarding the validity or scope of any
   intellectual property right or other rights that might be claimed to
   pertain to the implementation or use of the technology, or the extent
   to which any license under such rights might or might not be
   available.  See the IETF IPR web page at http://www.ietf.org/ipr.html
   for additional information.






Knight, et. al.             Standards Track                     [Page 3]

RFC 2338                          VRRP                        April 1998


