3.0 VRRP Overview

   VRRP specifies an election protocol to provide the virtual router
   function described earlier.  All protocol messaging is performed
   using IP multicast datagrams, thus the protocol can operate over a
   variety of multiaccess LAN technologies supporting IP multicast.
   Each VRRP virtual router has a single well-known MAC address
   allocated to it.  This document currently only details the mapping to
   networks using the IEEE 802 48-bit MAC address.  The virtual router
   MAC address is used as the source in all periodic VRRP messages sent
   by the Master router to enable bridge learning in an extended LAN.

   A virtual router is defined by its virtual router identifier (VRID)
   and a set of IP addresses.  A VRRP router may associate a virtual
   router with its real addresses on an interface, and may also be
   configured with additional virtual router mappings and priority for
   virtual routers it is willing to backup.  The mapping between VRID
   and addresses must be coordinated among all VRRP routers on a LAN.



Knight, et. al.             Standards Track                     [Page 6]

RFC 2338                          VRRP                        April 1998


   However, there is no restriction against reusing a VRID with a
   different address mapping on different LANs.  The scope of each
   virtual router is restricted to a single LAN.

   To minimize network traffic, only the Master for each virtual router
   sends periodic VRRP Advertisement messages.  A Backup router will not
   attempt to pre-empt the Master unless it has higher priority.  This
   eliminates service disruption unless a more preferred path becomes
   available.  It's also possible to administratively prohibit all pre-
   emption attempts.  The only exception is that a VRRP router will
   always become Master of any virtual router associated with addresses
   it owns.  If the Master becomes unavailable then the highest priority
   Backup will transition to Master after a short delay, providing a
   controlled transition of the virtual router responsibility with
   minimal service interruption.

   VRRP defines three types of authentication providing simple
   deployment in insecure environments, added protection against
   misconfiguration, and strong sender authentication in security
   conscious environments.  Analysis of the protection provided and
   vulnerability of each mechanism is deferred to Section 10.0 Security
   Considerations.  In addition new authentication types and data can be
   defined in the future without affecting the format of the fixed
   portion of the protocol packet, thus preserving backward compatible
   operation.

   The VRRP protocol design provides rapid transition from Backup to
   Master to minimize service interruption, and incorporates
   optimizations that reduce protocol complexity while guaranteeing
   controlled Master transition for typical operational scenarios.  The
   optimizations result in an election protocol with minimal runtime
   state requirements, minimal active protocol states, and a single
   message type and sender.  The typical operational scenarios are
   defined to be two redundant routers and/or distinct path preferences
   among each router.  A side effect when these assumptions are violated
   (i.e., more than two redundant paths all with equal preference) is
   that duplicate packets may be forwarded for a brief period during
   Master election.  However, the typical scenario assumptions are
   likely to cover the vast majority of deployments, loss of the Master
   router is infrequent, and the expected duration in Master election
   convergence is quite small ( << 1 second ).  Thus the VRRP
   optimizations represent significant simplifications in the protocol
   design while incurring an insignificant probability of brief network
   degradation.







Knight, et. al.             Standards Track                     [Page 7]

RFC 2338                          VRRP                        April 1998


