*07.5*	Copy text between files

This explains how to copy text from one file to another.  Let's start with a
simple example.  Edit the file that contains the text you want to copy.  Move
the cursor to the start of the text and press "v".  This starts Visual mode.
Now move the cursor to the end of the text and press "y".  This yanks (copies)
the selected text.
   To copy the above paragraph, you would do: >

	:edit thisfile
	/This
	vjjjj$y

Now edit the file you want to put the text in.  Move the cursor to the
character where you want the text to appear after.  Use "p" to put the text
there. >
	:edit otherfile
	/There
	p

Of course you can use many other commands to yank the text.  For example, to
select whole lines start Visual mode with "V".  Or use CTRL-V to select a
rectangular block.  Or use "Y" to yank a single line, "yaw" to yank-a-word,
etc.
   The "p" command puts the text after the cursor.  Use "P" to put the text
before the cursor.  Notice that Vim remembers if you yanked a whole line or a
block, and puts it back that way.


USING REGISTERS

When you want to copy several pieces of text from one file to another, having
to switch between the files and writing the target file takes a lot of time.
To avoid this, copy each piece of text to its own register.
   A register is a place where Vim stores text.  Here we will use the
registers named a to z (later you will find out there are others).  Let's copy
a sentence to the f register (f for First): >

	"fyas

The "yas" command yanks a sentence like before.  It's the "f that tells Vim
the text should be placed in the f register.  This must come just before the
yank command.
   Now yank three whole lines to the l register (l for line): >

	"l3Y

The count could be before the "l just as well.  To yank a block of text to the
b (for block) register: >

	CTRL-Vjjww"by

Notice that the register specification "b is just before the "y" command.
This is required.  If you would have put it before the "w" command, it would
not have worked.
   Now you have three pieces of text in the f, l and b registers.  Edit
another file, move around and place the text where you want it: >

	"fp

Again, the register specification "f comes before the "p" command.
   You can put the registers in any order.  And the text stays in the register
until you yank something else into it.  Thus you can put it as many times as
you like.

When you delete text, you can also specify a register.  Use this to move
several pieces of text around.  For example, to delete-a-word and write it in
the w register: >

	"wdaw

Again, the register specification comes before the delete command "d".


APPENDING TO A FILE

When collecting lines of text into one file, you can use this command: >

	:write >> logfile

This will write the text of the current file to the end of "logfile".  Thus it
is appended.  This avoids that you have to copy the lines, edit the log file
and put them there.  Thus you save two steps.  But you can only append to the
end of a file.
   To append only a few lines, select them in Visual mode before typing
":write".  In chapter 10 you will learn other ways to select a range of lines.

