MODES
       mdadm has several major modes of operation:

       Assemble
              Assemble the components of a previously created array into an active array.  Components can be explicitly given or can be searched for.  mdadm checks that the  components
              do form a bona fide array, and can, on request, fiddle superblock information so as to assemble a faulty array.

       Build  Build  an array that doesn't have per-device metadata (superblocks).  For these sorts of arrays, mdadm cannot differentiate between initial creation and subsequent assem-
              bly of an array.  It also cannot perform any checks that appropriate components have been requested.  Because of this, the Build mode should only be used together with  a
              complete understanding of what you are doing.

       Create Create  a  new array with per-device metadata (superblocks).  Appropriate metadata is written to each device, and then the array comprising those devices is activated.  A
              'resync' process is started to make sure that the array is consistent (e.g. both sides of a mirror contain the same data) but the content of the device is left  otherwise
              untouched.  The array can be used as soon as it has been created.  There is no need to wait for the initial resync to finish.

       Follow or Monitor
              Monitor  one  or  more md devices and act on any state changes.  This is only meaningful for RAID1, 4, 5, 6, 10 or multipath arrays, as only these have interesting state.
              RAID0 or Linear never have missing, spare, or failed drives, so there is nothing to monitor.

       Grow   Grow (or shrink) an array, or otherwise reshape it in some way.  Currently supported growth options including changing the active size of component devices  and  changing
              the number of active devices in Linear and RAID levels 0/1/4/5/6, changing the RAID level between 0, 1, 5, and 6, and between 0 and 10, changing the chunk size and layout
              for RAID 0,4,5,6,10 as well as adding or removing a write-intent bitmap and changing the array's consistency policy.

       Incremental Assembly
              Add a single device to an appropriate array.  If the addition of the device makes the array runnable, the array will be started.  This provides a convenient interface  to
              a  hot-plug system.  As each device is detected, mdadm has a chance to include it in some array as appropriate.  Optionally, when the --fail flag is passed in we will re-
              move the device from any active array instead of adding it.

              If a CONTAINER is passed to mdadm in this mode, then any arrays within that container will be assembled and started.

       Manage This is for doing things to specific components of an array such as adding new spares and removing faulty devices.

       Misc   This is an 'everything else' mode that supports operations on active arrays, operations on component devices such as erasing old superblocks,  and  information  gathering
              operations.

       Auto-detect
              This mode does not act on a specific device or array, but rather it requests the Linux Kernel to activate any auto-detected arrays.

