CREATE MODE
       Usage: mdadm --create md-device --chunk=X --level=Y
                   --raid-devices=Z devices

       This usage will initialise a new md array, associate some devices with it, and activate the array.

       The named device will normally not exist when mdadm --create is run, but will be created by udev once the array becomes active.

       As devices are added, they are checked to see if they contain RAID superblocks or filesystems.  They are also checked to see if the variance in device size exceeds 1%.

       If any discrepancy is found, the array will not automatically be run, though the presence of a --run can override this caution.

       To  create a "degraded" array in which some devices are missing, simply give the word "missing" in place of a device name.  This will cause mdadm to leave the corresponding slot
       in the array empty.  For a RAID4 or RAID5 array at most one slot can be "missing"; for a RAID6 array at most two slots.  For a RAID1 array, only one  real  device  needs  to  be
       given.  All of the others can be "missing".

       When  creating a RAID5 array, mdadm will automatically create a degraded array with an extra spare drive.  This is because building the spare into a degraded array is in general
       faster than resyncing the parity on a non-degraded, but not clean, array.  This feature can be overridden with the --force option.

       When creating an array with version-1 metadata a name for the array is required.  If this is not given with the --name option, mdadm will choose a name based on the last  compo-
       nent  of  the  name  of the device being created.  So if /dev/md3 is being created, then the name 3 will be chosen.  If /dev/md/home is being created, then the name home will be
       used.

       When creating a partition based array, using mdadm with version-1.x metadata, the partition type should be set to 0xDA (non fs-data).  This type  selection  allows  for  greater
       precision since using any other [RAID auto-detect (0xFD) or a GNU/Linux partition (0x83)], might create problems in the event of array recovery through a live cdrom.

       A  new array will normally get a randomly assigned 128bit UUID which is very likely to be unique.  If you have a specific need, you can choose a UUID for the array by giving the
       --uuid= option.  Be warned that creating two arrays with the same UUID is a recipe for disaster.  Also, using --uuid= when creating a v0.90  array  will  silently  override  any
       --homehost= setting.

       If  the  array  type supports a write-intent bitmap, and if the devices in the array exceed 100G is size, an internal write-intent bitmap will automatically be added unless some
       other option is explicitly requested with the --bitmap option or a different consistency policy is selected with the --consistency-policy option. In any case space for a  bitmap
       will be reserved so that one can be added later with --grow --bitmap=internal.

       If  the  metadata  type  supports  it (currently only 1.x and IMSM metadata), space will be allocated to store a bad block list.  This allows a modest number of bad blocks to be
       recorded, allowing the drive to remain in service while only partially functional.

       When creating an array within a CONTAINER mdadm can be given either the list of devices to use, or simply the name of the container.  The former case gives  control  over  which
       devices in the container will be used for the array.  The latter case allows mdadm to automatically choose which devices to use based on how much spare space is available.

       The General Management options that are valid with --create are:

       --run  insist on running the array even if some devices look like they might be in use.

       --readonly
              start the array in readonly mode.

