3.  Assumptions and General Principles

   In this section, we describe some of the important design principles
   and assumptions that guided the design choices in this proposal.

      * Because ECN is likely to be adopted gradually, accommodating
        migration is essential. Some routers may still only drop packets
        to indicate congestion, and some end-systems may not be ECN-
        capable. The most viable strategy is one that accommodates
        incremental deployment without having to resort to "islands" of
        ECN-capable and non-ECN-capable environments.

      * New mechanisms for congestion control and avoidance need to co-
        exist and cooperate with existing mechanisms for congestion
        control.  In particular, new mechanisms have to co-exist with
        TCP's current methods of adapting to congestion and with
        routers' current practice of dropping packets in periods of
        congestion.

      * Congestion may persist over different time-scales. The time
        scales that we are concerned with are congestion events that may
        last longer than a round-trip time.

      * The number of packets in an individual flow (e.g., TCP
        connection or an exchange using UDP) may range from a small
        number of packets to quite a large number. We are interested in
        managing the congestion caused by flows that send enough packets
        so that they are still active when network feedback reaches
        them.

      * Asymmetric routing is likely to be a normal occurrence in the
        Internet. The path (sequence of links and routers) followed by
        data packets may be different from the path followed by the
        acknowledgment packets in the reverse direction.





Ramakrishnan, et al.        Standards Track                     [Page 5]

RFC 3168               The Addition of ECN to IP          September 2001


      * Many routers process the "regular" headers in IP packets more
        efficiently than they process the header information in IP
        options.  This suggests keeping congestion experienced
        information in the regular headers of an IP packet.

      * It must be recognized that not all end-systems will cooperate in
        mechanisms for congestion control. However, new mechanisms
        shouldn't make it easier for TCP applications to disable TCP
        congestion control.  The benefit of lying about participating in
        new mechanisms such as ECN-capability should be small.

