5.  Explicit Congestion Notification in IP

   This document specifies that the Internet provide a congestion
   indication for incipient congestion (as in RED and earlier work
   [RJ90]) where the notification can sometimes be through marking
   packets rather than dropping them.  This uses an ECN field in the IP
   header with two bits, making four ECN codepoints, '00' to '11'.  The
   ECN-Capable Transport (ECT) codepoints '10' and '01' are set by the
   data sender to indicate that the end-points of the transport protocol
   are ECN-capable; we call them ECT(0) and ECT(1) respectively.  The
   phrase "the ECT codepoint" in this documents refers to either of the
   two ECT codepoints.  Routers treat the ECT(0) and ECT(1) codepoints
   as equivalent.  Senders are free to use either the ECT(0) or the
   ECT(1) codepoint to indicate ECT, on a packet-by-packet basis.




Ramakrishnan, et al.        Standards Track                     [Page 6]

RFC 3168               The Addition of ECN to IP          September 2001


   The use of both the two codepoints for ECT, ECT(0) and ECT(1), is
   motivated primarily by the desire to allow mechanisms for the data
   sender to verify that network elements are not erasing the CE
   codepoint, and that data receivers are properly reporting to the
   sender the receipt of packets with the CE codepoint set, as required
   by the transport protocol.  Guidelines for the senders and receivers
   to differentiate between the ECT(0) and ECT(1) codepoints will be
   addressed in separate documents, for each transport protocol.  In
   particular, this document does not address mechanisms for TCP end-
   nodes to differentiate between the ECT(0) and ECT(1) codepoints.
   Protocols and senders that only require a single ECT codepoint SHOULD
   use ECT(0).

   The not-ECT codepoint '00' indicates a packet that is not using ECN.
   The CE codepoint '11' is set by a router to indicate congestion to
   the end nodes.  Routers that have a packet arriving at a full queue
   drop the packet, just as they do in the absence of ECN.

      +-----+-----+
      | ECN FIELD |
      +-----+-----+
        ECT   CE         [Obsolete] RFC 2481 names for the ECN bits.
         0     0         Not-ECT
         0     1         ECT(1)
         1     0         ECT(0)
         1     1         CE

      Figure 1: The ECN Field in IP.

   The use of two ECT codepoints essentially gives a one-bit ECN nonce
   in packet headers, and routers necessarily "erase" the nonce when
   they set the CE codepoint [SCWA99].  For example, routers that erased
   the CE codepoint would face additional difficulty in reconstructing
   the original nonce, and thus repeated erasure of the CE codepoint
   would be more likely to be detected by the end-nodes.  The ECN nonce
   also can address the problem of misbehaving transport receivers lying
   to the transport sender about whether or not the CE codepoint was set
   in a packet.  The motivations for the use of two ECT codepoints is
   discussed in more detail in Section 20, along with some discussion of
   alternate possibilities for the fourth ECT codepoint (that is, the
   codepoint '01').  Backwards compatibility with earlier ECN
   implementations that do not understand the ECT(1) codepoint is
   discussed in Section 11.

   In RFC 2481 [RFC2481], the ECN field was divided into the ECN-Capable
   Transport (ECT) bit and the CE bit.  The ECN field with only the
   ECN-Capable Transport (ECT) bit set in RFC 2481 corresponds to the
   ECT(0) codepoint in this document, and the ECN field with both the



Ramakrishnan, et al.        Standards Track                     [Page 7]

RFC 3168               The Addition of ECN to IP          September 2001


   ECT and CE bit in RFC 2481 corresponds to the CE codepoint in this
   document.  The '01' codepoint was left undefined in RFC 2481, and
   this is the reason for recommending the use of ECT(0) when only a
   single ECT codepoint is needed.

         0     1     2     3     4     5     6     7
      +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
      |          DS FIELD, DSCP           | ECN FIELD |
      +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+

        DSCP: differentiated services codepoint
        ECN:  Explicit Congestion Notification

      Figure 2: The Differentiated Services and ECN Fields in IP.

   Bits 6 and 7 in the IPv4 TOS octet are designated as the ECN field.
   The IPv4 TOS octet corresponds to the Traffic Class octet in IPv6,
   and the ECN field is defined identically in both cases.  The
   definitions for the IPv4 TOS octet [RFC791] and the IPv6 Traffic
   Class octet have been superseded by the six-bit DS (Differentiated
   Services) Field [RFC2474, RFC2780].  Bits 6 and 7 are listed in
   [RFC2474] as Currently Unused, and are specified in RFC 2780 as
   approved for experimental use for ECN.  Section 22 gives a brief
   history of the TOS octet.

   Because of the unstable history of the TOS octet, the use of the ECN
   field as specified in this document cannot be guaranteed to be
   backwards compatible with those past uses of these two bits that
   pre-date ECN.  The potential dangers of this lack of backwards
   compatibility are discussed in Section 22.

   Upon the receipt by an ECN-Capable transport of a single CE packet,
   the congestion control algorithms followed at the end-systems MUST be
   essentially the same as the congestion control response to a *single*
   dropped packet.  For example, for ECN-Capable TCP the source TCP is
   required to halve its congestion window for any window of data
   containing either a packet drop or an ECN indication.

   One reason for requiring that the congestion-control response to the
   CE packet be essentially the same as the response to a dropped packet
   is to accommodate the incremental deployment of ECN in both end-
   systems and in routers.  Some routers may drop ECN-Capable packets
   (e.g., using the same AQM policies for congestion detection) while
   other routers set the CE codepoint, for equivalent levels of
   congestion.  Similarly, a router might drop a non-ECN-Capable packet
   but set the CE codepoint in an ECN-Capable packet, for equivalent





Ramakrishnan, et al.        Standards Track                     [Page 8]

RFC 3168               The Addition of ECN to IP          September 2001


   levels of congestion.  If there were different congestion control
   responses to a CE codepoint than to a packet drop, this could result
   in unfair treatment for different flows.

   An additional goal is that the end-systems should react to congestion
   at most once per window of data (i.e., at most once per round-trip
   time), to avoid reacting multiple times to multiple indications of
   congestion within a round-trip time.

   For a router, the CE codepoint of an ECN-Capable packet SHOULD only
   be set if the router would otherwise have dropped the packet as an
   indication of congestion to the end nodes. When the router's buffer
   is not yet full and the router is prepared to drop a packet to inform
   end nodes of incipient congestion, the router should first check to
   see if the ECT codepoint is set in that packet's IP header.  If so,
   then instead of dropping the packet, the router MAY instead set the
   CE codepoint in the IP header.

   An environment where all end nodes were ECN-Capable could allow new
   criteria to be developed for setting the CE codepoint, and new
   congestion control mechanisms for end-node reaction to CE packets.
   However, this is a research issue, and as such is not addressed in
   this document.

   When a CE packet (i.e., a packet that has the CE codepoint set) is
   received by a router, the CE codepoint is left unchanged, and the
   packet is transmitted as usual. When severe congestion has occurred
   and the router's queue is full, then the router has no choice but to
   drop some packet when a new packet arrives.  We anticipate that such
   packet losses will become relatively infrequent when a majority of
   end-systems become ECN-Capable and participate in TCP or other
   compatible congestion control mechanisms. In an ECN-Capable
   environment that is adequately-provisioned, packet losses should
   occur primarily during transients or in the presence of non-
   cooperating sources.

   The above discussion of when CE may be set instead of dropping a
   packet applies by default to all Differentiated Services Per-Hop
   Behaviors (PHBs) [RFC 2475].  Specifications for PHBs MAY provide
   more specifics on how a compliant implementation is to choose between
   setting CE and dropping a packet, but this is NOT REQUIRED.  A router
   MUST NOT set CE instead of dropping a packet when the drop that would
   occur is caused by reasons other than congestion or the desire to
   indicate incipient congestion to end nodes (e.g., a diffserv edge
   node may be configured to unconditionally drop certain classes of
   traffic to prevent them from entering its diffserv domain).





Ramakrishnan, et al.        Standards Track                     [Page 9]

RFC 3168               The Addition of ECN to IP          September 2001


   We expect that routers will set the CE codepoint in response to
   incipient congestion as indicated by the average queue size, using
   the RED algorithms suggested in [FJ93, RFC2309].  To the best of our
   knowledge, this is the only proposal currently under discussion in
   the IETF for routers to drop packets proactively, before the buffer
   overflows.  However, this document does not attempt to specify a
   particular mechanism for active queue management, leaving that
   endeavor, if needed, to other areas of the IETF.  While ECN is
   inextricably tied up with the need to have a reasonable active queue
   management mechanism at the router, the reverse does not hold; active
   queue management mechanisms have been developed and deployed
   independent of ECN, using packet drops as indications of congestion
   in the absence of ECN in the IP architecture.

