5.1.  ECN as an Indication of Persistent Congestion

   We emphasize that a *single* packet with the CE codepoint set in an
   IP packet causes the transport layer to respond, in terms of
   congestion control, as it would to a packet drop.  The instantaneous
   queue size is likely to see considerable variations even when the
   router does not experience persistent congestion.  As such, it is
   important that transient congestion at a router, reflected by the
   instantaneous queue size reaching a threshold much smaller than the
   capacity of the queue, not trigger a reaction at the transport layer.
   Therefore, the CE codepoint should not be set by a router based on
   the instantaneous queue size.

   For example, since the ATM and Frame Relay mechanisms for congestion
   indication have typically been defined without an associated notion
   of average queue size as the basis for determining that an
   intermediate node is congested, we believe that they provide a very
   noisy signal. The TCP-sender reaction specified in this document for
   ECN is NOT the appropriate reaction for such a noisy signal of
   congestion notification.  However, if the routers that interface to
   the ATM network have a way of maintaining the average queue at the
   interface, and use it to come to a reliable determination that the
   ATM subnet is congested, they may use the ECN notification that is
   defined here.

   We continue to encourage experiments in techniques at layer 2 (e.g.,
   in ATM switches or Frame Relay switches) to take advantage of ECN.
   For example, using a scheme such as RED (where packet marking is
   based on the average queue length exceeding a threshold), layer 2
   devices could provide a reasonably reliable indication of congestion.
   When all the layer 2 devices in a path set that layer's own
   Congestion Experienced codepoint (e.g., the EFCI bit for ATM, the
   FECN bit in Frame Relay) in this reliable manner, then the interface
   router to the layer 2 network could copy the state of that layer 2



Ramakrishnan, et al.        Standards Track                    [Page 10]

RFC 3168               The Addition of ECN to IP          September 2001


   Congestion Experienced codepoint into the CE codepoint in the IP
   header.  We recognize that this is not the current practice, nor is
   it in current standards. However, encouraging experimentation in this
   manner may provide the information needed to enable evolution of
   existing layer 2 mechanisms to provide a more reliable means of
   congestion indication, when they use a single bit for indicating
   congestion.

