6.  Support from the Transport Protocol

   ECN requires support from the transport protocol, in addition to the
   functionality given by the ECN field in the IP packet header. The
   transport protocol might require negotiation between the endpoints
   during setup to determine that all of the endpoints are ECN-capable,
   so that the sender can set the ECT codepoint in transmitted packets.
   Second, the transport protocol must be capable of reacting
   appropriately to the receipt of CE packets.  This reaction could be
   in the form of the data receiver informing the data sender of the
   received CE packet (e.g., TCP), of the data receiver unsubscribing to
   a layered multicast group (e.g., RLM [MJV96]), or of some other
   action that ultimately reduces the arrival rate of that flow on that
   congested link.  CE packets indicate persistent rather than transient
   congestion (see Section 5.1), and hence reactions to the receipt of
   CE packets should be those appropriate for persistent congestion.

   This document only addresses the addition of ECN Capability to TCP,
   leaving issues of ECN in other transport protocols to further
   research.  For TCP, ECN requires three new pieces of functionality:



Ramakrishnan, et al.        Standards Track                    [Page 12]

RFC 3168               The Addition of ECN to IP          September 2001


   negotiation between the endpoints during connection setup to
   determine if they are both ECN-capable; an ECN-Echo (ECE) flag in the
   TCP header so that the data receiver can inform the data sender when
   a CE packet has been received; and a Congestion Window Reduced (CWR)
   flag in the TCP header so that the data sender can inform the data
   receiver that the congestion window has been reduced. The support
   required from other transport protocols is likely to be different,
   particularly for unreliable or reliable multicast transport
   protocols, and will have to be determined as other transport
   protocols are brought to the IETF for standardization.

   In a mild abuse of terminology, in this document we refer to `TCP
   packets' instead of `TCP segments'.

