6.1.1.1.  Middlebox Issues

   ECN introduces the use of the ECN-Echo and CWR flags in the TCP
   header (as shown in Figure 3) for initialization.  There exist some
   faulty firewalls, load balancers, and intrusion detection systems in
   the Internet that either drop an ECN-setup SYN packet or respond with
   a RST, in the belief that such a packet (with these bits set) is a
   signature for a port-scanning tool that could be used in a denial-
   of-service attack.  Some of the offending equipment has been
   identified, and a web page [FIXES] contains a list of non-compliant
   products and the fixes posted by the vendors, where these are
   available.  The TBIT web page [TBIT] lists some of the web servers
   affected by this faulty equipment.  We mention this in this document
   as a warning to the community of this problem.



Ramakrishnan, et al.        Standards Track                    [Page 16]

RFC 3168               The Addition of ECN to IP          September 2001


   To provide robust connectivity even in the presence of such faulty
   equipment, a host that receives a RST in response to the transmission
   of an ECN-setup SYN packet MAY resend a SYN with CWR and ECE cleared.
   This could result in a TCP connection being established without using
   ECN.

   A host that receives no reply to an ECN-setup SYN within the normal
   SYN retransmission timeout interval MAY resend the SYN and any
   subsequent SYN retransmissions with CWR and ECE cleared.  To overcome
   normal packet loss that results in the original SYN being lost, the
   originating host may retransmit one or more ECN-setup SYN packets
   before giving up and retransmitting the SYN with the CWR and ECE bits
   cleared.

   We note that in this case, the following example scenario is
   possible:

   (1) Host A: Sends an ECN-setup SYN.
   (2) Host B: Sends an ECN-setup SYN/ACK, packet is dropped or delayed.
   (3) Host A: Sends a non-ECN-setup SYN.
   (4) Host B: Sends a non-ECN-setup SYN/ACK.

   We note that in this case, following the procedures above, neither
   Host A nor Host B may set the ECT bit on data packets.  Further, an
   important consequence of the rules for ECN setup and usage in Section
   6.1.1 is that a host is forbidden from using the reception of ECT
   data packets as an implicit signal that the other host is ECN-
   capable.

