6.1.2.  The TCP Sender

   For a TCP connection using ECN, new data packets are transmitted with
   an ECT codepoint set in the IP header.  When only one ECT codepoint
   is needed by a sender for all packets sent on a TCP connection,
   ECT(0) SHOULD be used.  If the sender receives an ECN-Echo (ECE) ACK
   packet (that is, an ACK packet with the ECN-Echo flag set in the TCP
   header), then the sender knows that congestion was encountered in the
   network on the path from the sender to the receiver.  The indication
   of congestion should be treated just as a congestion loss in non-
   ECN-Capable TCP. That is, the TCP source halves the congestion window
   "cwnd" and reduces the slow start threshold "ssthresh".  The sending
   TCP SHOULD NOT increase the congestion window in response to the
   receipt of an ECN-Echo ACK packet.

   TCP should not react to congestion indications more than once every
   window of data (or more loosely, more than once every round-trip
   time). That is, the TCP sender's congestion window should be reduced
   only once in response to a series of dropped and/or CE packets from a
   single window of data.  In addition, the TCP source should not
   decrease the slow-start threshold, ssthresh, if it has been decreased
   within the last round trip time.  However, if any retransmitted
   packets are dropped, then this is interpreted by the source TCP as a
   new instance of congestion.

   After the source TCP reduces its congestion window in response to a
   CE packet, incoming acknowledgments that continue to arrive can
   "clock out" outgoing packets as allowed by the reduced congestion
   window.  If the congestion window consists of only one MSS (maximum
   segment size), and the sending TCP receives an ECN-Echo ACK packet,
   then the sending TCP should in principle still reduce its congestion
   window in half. However, the value of the congestion window is
   bounded below by a value of one MSS.  If the sending TCP were to
   continue to send, using a congestion window of 1 MSS, this results in
   the transmission of one packet per round-trip time.  It is necessary
   to still reduce the sending rate of the TCP sender even further, on
   receipt of an ECN-Echo packet when the congestion window is one.  We
   use the retransmit timer as a means of reducing the rate further in
   this circumstance.  Therefore, the sending TCP MUST reset the
   retransmit timer on receiving the ECN-Echo packet when the congestion
   window is one.  The sending TCP will then be able to send a new
   packet only when the retransmit timer expires.

   When an ECN-Capable TCP sender reduces its congestion window for any
   reason (because of a retransmit timeout, a Fast Retransmit, or in
   response to an ECN Notification), the TCP sender sets the CWR flag in
   the TCP header of the first new data packet sent after the window
   reduction.  If that data packet is dropped in the network, then the



Ramakrishnan, et al.        Standards Track                    [Page 18]

RFC 3168               The Addition of ECN to IP          September 2001


   sending TCP will have to reduce the congestion window again and
   retransmit the dropped packet.

   We ensure that the "Congestion Window Reduced" information is
   reliably delivered to the TCP receiver.  This comes about from the
   fact that if the new data packet carrying the CWR flag is dropped,
   then the TCP sender will have to again reduce its congestion window,
   and send another new data packet with the CWR flag set.  Thus, the
   CWR bit in the TCP header SHOULD NOT be set on retransmitted packets.

   When the TCP data sender is ready to set the CWR bit after reducing
   the congestion window, it SHOULD set the CWR bit only on the first
   new data packet that it transmits.

   [Floyd94] discusses TCP's response to ECN in more detail.  [Floyd98]
   discusses the validation test in the ns simulator, which illustrates
   a wide range of ECN scenarios. These scenarios include the following:
   an ECN followed by another ECN, a Fast Retransmit, or a Retransmit
   Timeout; a Retransmit Timeout or a Fast Retransmit followed by an
   ECN; and a congestion window of one packet followed by an ECN.

   TCP follows existing algorithms for sending data packets in response
   to incoming ACKs, multiple duplicate acknowledgments, or retransmit
   timeouts [RFC2581].  TCP also follows the normal procedures for
   increasing the congestion window when it receives ACK packets without
   the ECN-Echo bit set [RFC2581].

