6.1.5.  Retransmitted TCP packets

   This document specifies ECN-capable TCP implementations MUST NOT set
   either ECT codepoint (ECT(0) or ECT(1)) in the IP header for
   retransmitted data packets, and that the TCP data receiver SHOULD
   ignore the ECN field on arriving data packets that are outside of the
   receiver's current window.  This is for greater security against
   denial-of-service attacks, as well as for robustness of the ECN
   congestion indication with packets that are dropped later in the
   network.

   First, we note that if the TCP sender were to set an ECT codepoint on
   a retransmitted packet, then if an unnecessarily-retransmitted packet
   was later dropped in the network, the end nodes would never receive
   the indication of congestion from the router setting the CE
   codepoint.  Thus, setting an ECT codepoint on retransmitted data
   packets is not consistent with the robust delivery of the congestion
   indication even for packets that are later dropped in the network.




Ramakrishnan, et al.        Standards Track                    [Page 20]

RFC 3168               The Addition of ECN to IP          September 2001


   In addition, an attacker capable of spoofing the IP source address of
   the TCP sender could send data packets with arbitrary sequence
   numbers, with the CE codepoint set in the IP header.  On receiving
   this spoofed data packet, the TCP data receiver would determine that
   the data does not lie in the current receive window, and return a
   duplicate acknowledgement.  We define an out-of-window packet at the
   TCP data receiver as a data packet that lies outside the receiver's
   current window.  On receiving an out-of-window packet, the TCP data
   receiver has to decide whether or not to treat the CE codepoint in
   the packet header as a valid indication of congestion, and therefore
   whether to return ECN-Echo indications to the TCP data sender.  If
   the TCP data receiver ignored the CE codepoint in an out-of-window
   packet, then the TCP data sender would not receive this possibly-
   legitimate indication of congestion from the network, resulting in a
   violation of end-to-end congestion control.  On the other hand, if
   the TCP data receiver honors the CE indication in the out-of-window
   packet, and reports the indication of congestion to the TCP data
   sender, then the malicious node that created the spoofed, out-of-
   window packet has successfully "attacked" the TCP connection by
   forcing the data sender to unnecessarily reduce (halve) its
   congestion window.  To prevent such a denial-of-service attack, we
   specify that a legitimate TCP data sender MUST NOT set an ECT
   codepoint on retransmitted data packets, and that the TCP data
   receiver SHOULD ignore the CE codepoint on out-of-window packets.

   One drawback of not setting ECT(0) or ECT(1) on retransmitted packets
   is that it denies ECN protection for retransmitted packets.  However,
   for an ECN-capable TCP connection in a fully-ECN-capable environment
   with mild congestion, packets should rarely be dropped due to
   congestion in the first place, and so instances of retransmitted
   packets should rarely arise.  If packets are being retransmitted,
   then there are already packet losses (from corruption or from
   congestion) that ECN has been unable to prevent.

   We note that if the router sets the CE codepoint for an ECN-capable
   data packet within a TCP connection, then the TCP connection is
   guaranteed to receive that indication of congestion, or to receive
   some other indication of congestion within the same window of data,
   even if this packet is dropped or reordered in the network.  We
   consider two cases, when the packet is later retransmitted, and when
   the packet is not later retransmitted.

   In the first case, if the packet is either dropped or delayed, and at
   some point retransmitted by the data sender, then the retransmission
   is a result of a Fast Retransmit or a Retransmit Timeout for either
   that packet or for some prior packet in the same window of data.  In
   this case, because the data sender already has retransmitted this
   packet, we know that the data sender has already responded to an



Ramakrishnan, et al.        Standards Track                    [Page 21]

RFC 3168               The Addition of ECN to IP          September 2001


   indication of congestion for some packet within the same window of
   data as the original packet.  Thus, even if the first transmission of
   the packet is dropped in the network, or is delayed, if it had the CE
   codepoint set, and is later ignored by the data receiver as an out-
   of-window packet, this is not a problem, because the sender has
   already responded to an indication of congestion for that window of
   data.

   In the second case, if the packet is never retransmitted by the data
   sender, then this data packet is the only copy of this data received
   by the data receiver, and therefore arrives at the data receiver as
   an in-window packet, regardless of how much the packet might be
   delayed or reordered.  In this case, if the CE codepoint is set on
   the packet within the network, this will be treated by the data
   receiver as a valid indication of congestion.

