9.1.  IP packets encapsulated in IP

   The encapsulation of IP packet headers in tunnels is used in many
   places, including IPsec and IP in IP [RFC2003].  This section
   considers issues related to interactions between ECN and IP tunnels,
   and specifies two alternative solutions.  This discussion is
   complemented by RFC 2983's discussion of interactions between
   Differentiated Services and IP tunnels of various forms [RFC 2983],
   as Differentiated Services uses the remaining six bits of the IP
   header octet that is used by ECN (see Figure 2 in Section 5).


   Some IP tunnel modes are based on adding a new "outer" IP header that
   encapsulates the original, or "inner" IP header and its associated
   packet.  In many cases, the new "outer" IP header may be added and
   removed at intermediate points along a connection, enabling the
   network to establish a tunnel without requiring endpoint
   participation.  We denote tunnels that specify that the outer header
   be discarded at tunnel egress as "simple tunnels".

   ECN uses the ECN field in the IP header for signaling between routers
   and connection endpoints.  ECN interacts with IP tunnels based on the
   treatment of the ECN field in the IP header.  In simple IP tunnels
   the octet containing the ECN field is copied or mapped from the inner
   IP header to the outer IP header at IP tunnel ingress, and the outer
   header's copy of this field is discarded at IP tunnel egress.  If the
   outer header were to be simply discarded without taking care to deal
   with the ECN field, and an ECN-capable router were to set the CE



Ramakrishnan, et al.        Standards Track                    [Page 25]

RFC 3168               The Addition of ECN to IP          September 2001


   (Congestion Experienced) codepoint within a packet in a simple IP
   tunnel, this indication would be discarded at tunnel egress, losing
   the indication of congestion.

   Thus, the use of ECN over simple IP tunnels would result in routers
   attempting to use the outer IP header to signal congestion to
   endpoints, but those congestion warnings never arriving because the
   outer header is discarded at the tunnel egress point.  This problem
   was encountered with ECN and IPsec in tunnel mode, and RFC 2481
   recommended that ECN not be used with the older simple IPsec tunnels
   in order to avoid this behavior and its consequences.  When ECN
   becomes widely deployed, then simple tunnels likely to carry ECN-
   capable traffic will have to be changed.  If ECN-capable traffic is
   carried by a simple tunnel through a congested, ECN-capable router,
   this could result in subsequent packets being dropped for this flow
   as the average queue size increases at the congested router, as
   discussed in Section 8 above.

   From a security point of view, the use of ECN in the outer header of
   an IP tunnel might raise security concerns because an adversary could
   tamper with the ECN information that propagates beyond the tunnel
   endpoint.  Based on an analysis in Sections 18 and 19 of these
   concerns and the resultant risks, our overall approach is to make
   support for ECN an option for IP tunnels, so that an IP tunnel can be
   specified or configured either to use ECN or not to use ECN in the
   outer header of the tunnel.  Thus, in environments or tunneling
   protocols where the risks of using ECN are judged to outweigh its
   benefits, the tunnel can simply not use ECN in the outer header.
   Then the only indication of congestion experienced at routers within
   the tunnel would be through packet loss.

   The result is that there are two viable options for the behavior of
   ECN-capable connections over an IP tunnel, including IPsec tunnels:

      * A limited-functionality option in which ECN is preserved in the
        inner header, but disabled in the outer header.  The only
        mechanism available for signaling congestion occurring within
        the tunnel in this case is dropped packets.

      * A full-functionality option that supports ECN in both the inner
        and outer headers, and propagates congestion warnings from nodes
        within the tunnel to endpoints.

   Support for these options requires varying amounts of changes to IP
   header processing at tunnel ingress and egress.  A small subset of
   these changes sufficient to support only the limited-functionality
   option would be sufficient to eliminate any incompatibility between
   ECN and IP tunnels.



Ramakrishnan, et al.        Standards Track                    [Page 26]

RFC 3168               The Addition of ECN to IP          September 2001


   One goal of this document is to give guidance about the tradeoffs
   between the limited-functionality and full-functionality options.  A
   full discussion of the potential effects of an adversary's
   modifications of the ECN field is given in Sections 18 and 19.

