9.1.2.  Changes to the ECN Field within an IP Tunnel.

   The presence of a copy of the ECN field in the inner header of an IP
   tunnel mode packet provides an opportunity for detection of
   unauthorized modifications to the ECN field in the outer header.
   Comparison of the ECT fields in the inner and outer headers falls
   into two categories for implementations that conform to this
   document:

      * If the IP tunnel uses the full-functionality option, then the
        not-ECT codepoint should be set in the outer header if and only
        if it is also set in the inner header.

      * If the tunnel uses the limited-functionality option, then the
        not-ECT codepoint should be set in the outer header.

   Receipt of a packet not satisfying the appropriate condition could be
   a cause of concern.



Ramakrishnan, et al.        Standards Track                    [Page 28]

RFC 3168               The Addition of ECN to IP          September 2001


   Consider the case of an IP tunnel where the tunnel ingress point has
   not been updated to this document's requirements, while the tunnel
   egress point has been updated to support ECN.  In this case, the IP
   tunnel is not explicitly configured to support the full-functionality
   ECN option. However, the tunnel ingress point is behaving identically
   to a tunnel ingress point that supports the full-functionality
   option.  If packets from an ECN-capable connection use this tunnel,
   the ECT codepoint will be set in the outer header at the tunnel
   ingress point.  Congestion within the tunnel may then result in ECN-
   capable routers setting CE in the outer header.  Because the tunnel
   has not been explicitly configured to support the full-functionality
   option, the tunnel egress point expects the not-ECT codepoint to be
   set in the outer header.  When an ECN-capable tunnel egress point
   receives a packet with the ECT or CE codepoint in the outer header,
   in a tunnel that has not been configured to support the full-
   functionality option, that packet should be processed, according to
   whether the CE codepoint was set, as follows.  It is RECOMMENDED that
   on a tunnel that has not been configured to support the full-
   functionality option, packets should be dropped at the egress point
   if the CE codepoint is set in the outer header but not in the inner
   header, and should be forwarded otherwise.

   An IP tunnel cannot provide protection against erasure of congestion
   indications based on changing the ECN codepoint from CE to ECT.  The
   erasure of congestion indications may impact the network and other
   flows in ways that would not be possible in the absence of ECN.  It
   is important to note that erasure of congestion indications can only
   be performed to congestion indications placed by nodes within the
   tunnel; the copy of the ECN field in the inner header preserves
   congestion notifications from nodes upstream of the tunnel ingress
   (unless the inner header is also erased).  If erasure of congestion
   notifications is judged to be a security risk that exceeds the
   congestion management benefits of ECN, then tunnels could be
   specified or configured to use the limited-functionality option.

