14.  Acknowledgements

   Many people have made contributions to this work and this document,
   including many that we have not managed to directly acknowledge in
   this document.  In addition, we would like to thank Kenjiro Cho for
   the proposal for the TCP mechanism for negotiating ECN-Capability,
   Kevin Fall for the proposal of the CWR bit, Steve Blake for material
   on IPv4 Header Checksum Recalculation, Jamal Hadi-Salim for
   discussions of ECN issues, and Steve Bellovin, Jim Bound, Brian
   Carpenter, Paul Ferguson, Stephen Kent, Greg Minshall, and Vern
   Paxson for discussions of security issues.  We also thank the
   Internet End-to-End Research Group for ongoing discussions of these
   issues.

   Email discussions with a number of people, including Dax Kelson,
   Alexey Kuznetsov, Jamal Hadi-Salim, and Venkat Venkatsubra, have
   addressed the issues raised by non-conformant equipment in the
   Internet that does not respond to TCP SYN packets with the ECE and
   CWR flags set.  We thank Mark Handley, Jitentra Padhye, and others
   for discussions on the TCP initialization procedures.

   The discussion of ECN and IP tunnel considerations draws heavily on
   related discussions and documents from the Differentiated Services
   Working Group.  We thank Tabassum Bint Haque from Dhaka, Bangladesh,
   for feedback on IP tunnels.  We thank Derrell Piper and Kero Tivinen
   for proposing modifications to RFC 2407 that improve the usability of
   negotiating the ECN Tunnel SA attribute.

   We thank David Wetherall, David Ely, and Neil Spring for the proposal
   for the ECN nonce.  We also thank Stefan Savage for discussions on
   this issue.  We thank Bob Briscoe and Jon Crowcroft for raising the
   issue of fragmentation in IP, on alternate semantics for the fourth
   ECN codepoint, and several other topics.  We thank Richard Wendland
   for feedback on several issues in the document.

   We also thank the IESG, and in particular the Transport Area
   Directors over the years, for their feedback and their work towards
   the standardization of ECN.

