18.3.  Split Paths

   In some cases, a malicious or broken router might have access to only
   a subset of the packets from a flow.  The question is as follows:
   can this router, by altering the ECN field in this subset of the
   packets, do more damage to that flow than if it had simply dropped
   that set of packets?

   We will classify the packets in the flow as A packets and B packets,
   and assume that the adversary only has access to A packets.  Assume
   that the adversary is subverting end-to-end congestion control along
   the path traveled by A packets only, by either falsely indicating
   ECN-Capability upstream of the point where congestion occurs, or
   erasing the congestion indication downstream.  Consider also that
   there exists a monitoring device that sees both the A and B packets,
   and will "punish" both the A and B packets if the total flow is
   determined not to be properly responding to indications of
   congestion.  Another key characteristic that we believe is likely to
   be true is that the monitoring device, before `punishing' the A&B
   flow, will first drop packets instead of setting the CE codepoint,
   and will drop arriving packets of that flow that already have the CE
   codepoint set.  If the end nodes are in fact using end-to-end
   congestion control, they will see all of the indications of
   congestion seen by the monitoring device, and will begin to respond
   to these indications of congestion. Thus, the monitoring device is
   successful in providing the indications to the flow at an early
   stage.

   It is true that the adversary that has access only to the A packets
   might, by subverting ECN-based congestion control, be able to deny
   the benefits of ECN to the other packets in the A&B aggregate.  While
   this is unfortunate, this is not a reason to disable ECN.

   A variant of falsely reporting congestion occurs when there are two
   adversaries along a path, where the first adversary falsely reports
   congestion, and the second adversary `erases' those reports. (Unlike
   packet drops, ECN congestion reports can be `reversed' later in the
   network by a malicious or broken router.  However, the use of the ECN
   nonce could help the transport to detect this behavior.)  While this
   would be transparent to the end node, it is possible that a
   monitoring device between the first and second adversaries would see
   the false indications of congestion.  Keep in mind our recommendation
   in this document, that before `punishing' a flow for not responding
   appropriately to congestion, the router will first switch to dropping



Ramakrishnan, et al.        Standards Track                    [Page 49]

RFC 3168               The Addition of ECN to IP          September 2001


   rather than marking as an indication of congestion, for that flow.
   When this includes dropping arriving packets from that flow that have
   the CE codepoint set, this ensures that these indications of
   congestion are being seen by the end nodes.  Thus, there is no
   additional harm that we are able to postulate as a result of multiple
   conflicting adversaries.

