19.1.  Implications for the Network and for Competing Flows

   The CE codepoint of the ECN field is only used by routers as an
   indication of congestion during periods of *moderate* congestion.
   ECN-capable routers should drop rather than mark packets during heavy
   congestion even if the router's queue is not yet full.  For example,
   for routers using active queue management based on RED, the router
   should drop rather than mark packets that arrive while the average
   queue sizes exceed the RED queue's maximum threshold.






Ramakrishnan, et al.        Standards Track                    [Page 50]

RFC 3168               The Addition of ECN to IP          September 2001


   One consequence for the network of subverting end-to-end congestion
   control is that flows that do not receive the congestion indications
   from the network might increase their sending rate until they drive
   the network into heavier congestion.  Then, the congested router
   could begin to drop rather than mark arriving packets.  For flows
   that are not isolated by some form of per-flow scheduling or other
   per-flow mechanisms, but are instead aggregated with other flows in a
   single queue in an undifferentiated fashion, this packet-dropping at
   the congested router would apply to all flows that share that queue.
   Thus, the consequences would be to increase the level of congestion
   in the network.

   In some cases, the increase in the level of congestion will lead to a
   substantial buffer buildup at the congested queue that will be
   sufficient to drive the congested queue from the packet-marking to
   the packet-dropping regime.  This transition could occur either
   because of buffer overflow, or because of the active queue management
   policy described above that drops packets when the average queue is
   above RED's maximum threshold.  At this point, all flows, including
   the subverted flow, will begin to see packet drops instead of packet
   marks, and a malicious or broken router will no longer be able to `
   erase' these indications of congestion in the network.  If the end
   nodes are deploying appropriate end-to-end congestion control, then
   the subverted flow will reduce its arrival rate in response to
   congestion.  When the level of congestion is sufficiently reduced,
   the congested queue can return from the packet-dropping regime to the
   packet-marking regime.  The steady-state pattern could be one of the
   congested queue oscillating between these two regimes.

   In other cases, the consequences of subverting end-to-end congestion
   control will not be severe enough to drive the congested link into
   sufficiently-heavy congestion that packets are dropped instead of
   being marked.  In this case, the implications for competing flows in
   the network will be a slightly-increased rate of packet marking or
   dropping, and a corresponding decrease in the bandwidth available to
   those flows.  This can be a stable state if the arrival rate of the
   subverted flow is sufficiently small, relative to the link bandwidth,
   that the average queue size at the congested router remains under
   control.  In particular, the subverted flow could have a limited
   bandwidth demand on the link at this router, while still getting more
   than its "fair" share of the link.  This limited demand could be due
   to a limited demand from the data source; a limitation from the TCP
   advertised window; a lower-bandwidth access pipe; or other factors.
   Thus the subversion of ECN-based congestion control can still lead to
   unfairness, which we believe is appropriate to note here.






Ramakrishnan, et al.        Standards Track                    [Page 51]

RFC 3168               The Addition of ECN to IP          September 2001


   The threat to the network posed by the subversion of ECN-based
   congestion control in the network is essentially the same as the
   threat posed by an end-system that intentionally fails to cooperate
   with end-to-end congestion control.  The deployment of mechanisms in
   routers to address this threat is an open research question, and is
   discussed further in Section 10.

   Let us take the example described in Section 18.1.1, where the CE
   codepoint that was set in a packet is erased: {'11' -> '10' or '11'
   -> '01'}.  The consequence for the congested upstream router that set
   the CE codepoint is that this congestion indication does not reach
   the end nodes for that flow. The source (even one which is completely
   cooperative and not malicious) is thus allowed to continue to
   increase its sending rate (if it is a TCP flow, by increasing its
   congestion window).  The flow potentially achieves better throughput
   than the other flows that also share the congested router, especially
   if there are no policing mechanisms or per-flow queuing mechanisms at
   that router.  Consider the behavior of the other flows, especially if
   they are cooperative: that is, the flows that do not experience
   subverted end-to-end congestion control.  They are likely to reduce
   their load (e.g., by reducing their window size) on the congested
   router, thus benefiting our subverted flow. This results in
   unfairness.  As we discussed above, this unfairness could either be
   transient (because the congested queue is driven into the packet-
   marking regime), oscillatory (because the congested queue oscillates
   between the packet marking and the packet dropping regime), or more
   moderate but a persistent stable state (because the congested queue
   is never driven to the packet dropping regime).

   The results would be similar if the subverted flow was intentionally
   avoiding end-to-end congestion control.  One difference is that a
   flow that is intentionally avoiding end-to-end congestion control at
   the end nodes can avoid end-to-end congestion control even when the
   congested queue is in packet-dropping mode, by refusing to reduce its
   sending rate in response to packet drops in the network.  Thus the
   problems for the network from the subversion of ECN-based congestion
   control are less severe than the problems caused by the intentional
   avoidance of end-to-end congestion control in the end nodes.  It is
   also the case that it is considerably more difficult to control the
   behavior of the end nodes than it is to control the behavior of the
   infrastructure itself.  This is not to say that the problems for the
   network posed by the network's subversion of ECN-based congestion
   control are small; just that they are dwarfed by the problems for the
   network posed by the subversion of either ECN-based or other
   currently known packet-based congestion control mechanisms by the end
   nodes.





Ramakrishnan, et al.        Standards Track                    [Page 52]

RFC 3168               The Addition of ECN to IP          September 2001


