20.1.  The Motivation for an ECT Codepoint.

   The need for an ECT codepoint is motivated by the fact that ECN will
   be deployed incrementally in an Internet where some transport
   protocols and routers understand ECN and some do not. With an ECT
   codepoint, the router can drop packets from flows that are not ECN-
   capable, but can *instead* set the CE codepoint in packets that *are*




Ramakrishnan, et al.        Standards Track                    [Page 54]

RFC 3168               The Addition of ECN to IP          September 2001


   ECN-capable. Because an ECT codepoint allows an end node to have the
   CE codepoint set in a packet *instead* of having the packet dropped,
   an end node might have some incentive to deploy ECN.

   If there was no ECT codepoint, then the router would have to set the
   CE codepoint for packets from both ECN-capable and non-ECN-capable
   flows.  In this case, there would be no incentive for end-nodes to
   deploy ECN, and no viable path of incremental deployment from a non-
   ECN world to an ECN-capable world.  Consider the first stages of such
   an incremental deployment, where a subset of the flows are ECN-
   capable.  At the onset of congestion, when the packet
   dropping/marking rate would be low, routers would only set CE
   codepoints, rather than dropping packets.  However, only those flows
   that are ECN-capable would understand and respond to CE packets. The
   result is that the ECN-capable flows would back off, and the non-
   ECN-capable flows would be unaware of the ECN signals and would
   continue to open their congestion windows.

   In this case, there are two possible outcomes: (1) the ECN-capable
   flows back off, the non-ECN-capable flows get all of the bandwidth,
   and congestion remains mild, or (2) the ECN-capable flows back off,
   the non-ECN-capable flows don't, and congestion increases until the
   router transitions from setting the CE codepoint to dropping packets.
   While this second outcome evens out the fairness, the ECN-capable
   flows would still receive little benefit from being ECN-capable,
   because the increased congestion would drive the router to packet-
   dropping behavior.

   A flow that advertised itself as ECN-Capable but does not respond to
   CE codepoints is functionally equivalent to a flow that turns off
   congestion control, as discussed earlier in this document.

   Thus, in a world when a subset of the flows are ECN-capable, but
   where ECN-capable flows have no mechanism for indicating that fact to
   the routers, there would be less effective and less fair congestion
   control in the Internet, resulting in a strong incentive for end
   nodes not to deploy ECN.

