6.1.3.  The TCP Receiver

   When TCP receives a CE data packet at the destination end-system, the
   TCP data receiver sets the ECN-Echo flag in the TCP header of the
   subsequent ACK packet.  If there is any ACK withholding implemented,
   as in current "delayed-ACK" TCP implementations where the TCP
   receiver can send an ACK for two arriving data packets, then the
   ECN-Echo flag in the ACK packet will be set to '1' if the CE
   codepoint is set in any of the data packets being acknowledged.  That
   is, if any of the received data packets are CE packets, then the
   returning ACK has the ECN-Echo flag set.

   To provide robustness against the possibility of a dropped ACK packet
   carrying an ECN-Echo flag, the TCP receiver sets the ECN-Echo flag in
   a series of ACK packets sent subsequently.  The TCP receiver uses the
   CWR flag received from the TCP sender to determine when to stop
   setting the ECN-Echo flag.

   After a TCP receiver sends an ACK packet with the ECN-Echo bit set,
   that TCP receiver continues to set the ECN-Echo flag in all the ACK
   packets it sends (whether they acknowledge CE data packets or non-CE



Ramakrishnan, et al.        Standards Track                    [Page 19]

RFC 3168               The Addition of ECN to IP          September 2001


   data packets) until it receives a CWR packet (a packet with the CWR
   flag set).  After the receipt of the CWR packet, acknowledgments for
   subsequent non-CE data packets do not have the ECN-Echo flag set. If
   another CE packet is received by the data receiver, the receiver
   would once again send ACK packets with the ECN-Echo flag set.  While
   the receipt of a CWR packet does not guarantee that the data sender
   received the ECN-Echo message, this does suggest that the data sender
   reduced its congestion window at some point *after* it sent the data
   packet for which the CE codepoint was set.

   We have already specified that a TCP sender is not required to reduce
   its congestion window more than once per window of data.  Some care
   is required if the TCP sender is to avoid unnecessary reductions of
   the congestion window when a window of data includes both dropped
   packets and (marked) CE packets.  This is illustrated in [Floyd98].

