8.  Non-compliance in the Network

   This section considers the issues when a router is operating,
   possibly maliciously, to modify either of the bits in the ECN field.
   We note that in IPv4, the IP header is protected from bit errors by a
   header checksum;  this is not the case in IPv6.  Thus for IPv6 the
   ECN field can be accidentally modified by bit errors on links or in
   routers without being detected by an IP header checksum.

   By tampering with the bits in the ECN field, an adversary (or a
   broken router) could do one or more of the following: falsely report
   congestion, disable ECN-Capability for an individual packet, erase
   the ECN congestion indication, or falsely indicate ECN-Capability.
   Section 18 systematically examines the various cases by which the ECN
   field could be modified.  The important criterion considered in
   determining the consequences of such modifications is whether it is
   likely to lead to poorer behavior in any dimension (throughput,
   delay, fairness or functionality) than if a router were to drop a
   packet.

   The first two possible changes, falsely reporting congestion or
   disabling ECN-Capability for an individual packet, are no worse than
   if the router were to simply drop the packet.  From a congestion
   control point of view, setting the CE codepoint in the absence of
   congestion by a non-compliant router would be no worse than a router
   dropping a packet unnecessarily. By "erasing" an ECT codepoint of a
   packet that is later dropped in the network, a router's actions could
   result in an unnecessary packet drop for that packet later in the
   network.

   However, as discussed in Section 18, a router that erases the ECN
   congestion indication or falsely indicates ECN-Capability could
   potentially do more damage to the flow that if it has simply dropped
   the packet.  A rogue or broken router that "erased" the CE codepoint
   in arriving CE packets would prevent that indication of congestion
   from reaching downstream receivers.  This could result in the failure
   of congestion control for that flow and a resulting increase in
   congestion in the network, ultimately resulting in subsequent packets
   dropped for this flow as the average queue size increased at the
   congested gateway.

   Section 19 considers the potential repercussions of subverting end-
   to-end congestion control by either falsely indicating ECN-
   Capability, or by erasing the congestion indication in ECN (the CE-
   codepoint).  We observe in Section 19 that the consequence of
   subverting ECN-based congestion control may lead to potential
   unfairness, but this is likely to be no worse than the subversion of
   either ECN-based or packet-based congestion control by the end nodes.



Ramakrishnan, et al.        Standards Track                    [Page 24]

RFC 3168               The Addition of ECN to IP          September 2001


