9.1.1.  The Limited-functionality and Full-functionality Options

   The limited-functionality option for ECN encapsulation in IP tunnels
   is for the not-ECT codepoint to be set in the outside (encapsulating)
   header regardless of the value of the ECN field in the inside
   (encapsulated) header.  With this option, the ECN field in the inner
   header is not altered upon de-capsulation.  The disadvantage of this
   approach is that the flow does not have ECN support for that part of
   the path that is using IP tunneling, even if the encapsulated packet
   (from the original TCP sender) is ECN-Capable.  That is, if the
   encapsulated packet arrives at a congested router that is ECN-
   capable, and the router can decide to drop or mark the packet as an
   indication of congestion to the end nodes, the router will not be
   permitted to set the CE codepoint in the packet header, but instead
   will have to drop the packet.

   The full-functionality option for ECN encapsulation is to copy the
   ECN codepoint of the inside header to the outside header on
   encapsulation if the inside header is not-ECT or ECT, and to set the
   ECN codepoint of the outside header to ECT(0) if the ECN codepoint of
   the inside header is CE.  On decapsulation, if the CE codepoint is
   set on the outside header, then the CE codepoint is also set in the
   inner header.  Otherwise, the ECN codepoint on the inner header is
   left unchanged.  That is, for full ECN support the encapsulation and
   decapsulation processing involves the following:  At tunnel ingress,
   the full-functionality option sets the ECN codepoint in the outer
   header.  If the ECN codepoint in the inner header is not-ECT or ECT,
   then it is copied to the ECN codepoint in the outer header.  If the
   ECN codepoint in the inner header is CE, then the ECN codepoint in
   the outer header is set to ECT(0).  Upon decapsulation at the tunnel
   egress, the full-functionality option sets the CE codepoint in the
   inner header if the CE codepoint is set in the outer header.
   Otherwise, no change is made to this field of the inner header.

   With the full-functionality option, a flow can take advantage of ECN
   in those parts of the path that might use IP tunneling.  The
   disadvantage of the full-functionality option from a security
   perspective is that the IP tunnel cannot protect the flow from
   certain modifications to the ECN bits in the IP header within the
   tunnel.  The potential dangers from modifications to the ECN bits in
   the IP header are described in detail in Sections 18 and 19.





Ramakrishnan, et al.        Standards Track                    [Page 27]

RFC 3168               The Addition of ECN to IP          September 2001


      (1) An IP tunnel MUST modify the handling of the DS field octet at
      IP tunnel endpoints by implementing either the limited-
      functionality or the full-functionality option.

      (2) Optionally, an IP tunnel MAY enable the endpoints of an IP
      tunnel to negotiate the choice between the limited-functionality
      and the full-functionality option for ECN in the tunnel.

   The minimum required to make ECN usable with IP tunnels is the
   limited-functionality option, which prevents ECN from being enabled
   in the outer header of the tunnel.  Full support for ECN requires the
   use of the full-functionality option.  If there are no optional
   mechanisms for the tunnel endpoints to negotiate a choice between the
   limited-functionality or full-functionality option, there can be a
   pre-existing agreement between the tunnel endpoints about whether to
   support the limited-functionality or the full-functionality ECN
   option.

   All IP tunnels MUST implement the limited-functionality option, and
   SHOULD support the full-functionality option.

   In addition, it is RECOMMENDED that packets with the CE codepoint in
   the outer header be dropped if they arrive at the tunnel egress point
   for a tunnel that uses the limited-functionality option, or for a
   tunnel that uses the full-functionality option but for which the
   not-ECT codepoint is set in the inner header.  This is motivated by
   backwards compatibility and to ensure that no unauthorized
   modifications of the ECN field take place, and is discussed further
   in the next Section (9.1.2).

