9.2.  IPsec Tunnels

   IPsec supports secure communication over potentially insecure network
   components such as intermediate routers.  IPsec protocols support two
   operating modes, transport mode and tunnel mode, that span a wide
   range of security requirements and operating environments.  Transport
   mode security protocol header(s) are inserted between the IP (IPv4 or
   IPv6) header and higher layer protocol headers (e.g., TCP), and hence
   transport mode can only be used for end-to-end security on a
   connection.  IPsec tunnel mode is based on adding a new "outer" IP
   header that encapsulates the original, or "inner" IP header and its
   associated packet.  Tunnel mode security headers are inserted between
   these two IP headers.  In contrast to transport mode, the new "outer"



Ramakrishnan, et al.        Standards Track                    [Page 29]

RFC 3168               The Addition of ECN to IP          September 2001


   IP header and tunnel mode security headers can be added and removed
   at intermediate points along a connection, enabling security gateways
   to secure vulnerable portions of a connection without requiring
   endpoint participation in the security protocols.  An important
   aspect of tunnel mode security is that in the original specification,
   the outer header is discarded at tunnel egress, ensuring that
   security threats based on modifying the IP header do not propagate
   beyond that tunnel endpoint.  Further discussion of IPsec can be
   found in [RFC2401].

   The IPsec protocol as originally defined in [ESP, AH] required that
   the inner header's ECN field not be changed by IPsec decapsulation
   processing at a tunnel egress node; this would have ruled out the
   possibility of full-functionality mode for ECN.  At the same time,
   this would ensure that an adversary's modifications to the ECN field
   cannot be used to launch theft- or denial-of-service attacks across
   an IPsec tunnel endpoint, as any such modifications will be discarded
   at the tunnel endpoint.

   In principle, permitting the use of ECN functionality in the outer
   header of an IPsec tunnel raises security concerns because an
   adversary could tamper with the information that propagates beyond
   the tunnel endpoint.  Based on an analysis (included in Sections 18
   and 19) of these concerns and the associated risks, our overall
   approach has been to provide configuration support for IPsec changes
   to remove the conflict with ECN.

   In particular, in tunnel mode the IPsec tunnel MUST support the
   limited-functionality option outlined in Section 9.1.1, and SHOULD
   support the full-functionality option outlined in Section 9.1.1.

   This makes permission to use ECN functionality in the outer header of
   an IPsec tunnel a configurable part of the corresponding IPsec
   Security Association (SA), so that it can be disabled in situations
   where the risks are judged to outweigh the benefits.  The result is
   that an IPsec security administrator is presented with two
   alternatives for the behavior of ECN-capable connections within an
   IPsec tunnel, the limited-functionality alternative and full-
   functionality alternative described earlier.

   In addition, this document specifies how the endpoints of an IPsec
   tunnel could negotiate enabling ECN functionality in the outer
   headers of that tunnel based on security policy.  The ability to
   negotiate ECN usage between tunnel endpoints would enable a security
   administrator to disable ECN in situations where she believes the
   risks (e.g., of lost congestion notifications) outweigh the benefits
   of ECN.




Ramakrishnan, et al.        Standards Track                    [Page 30]

RFC 3168               The Addition of ECN to IP          September 2001


   The IPsec protocol, as defined in [ESP, AH], does not include the IP
   header's ECN field in any of its cryptographic calculations (in the
   case of tunnel mode, the outer IP header's ECN field is not
   included).  Hence modification of the ECN field by a network node has
   no effect on IPsec's end-to-end security, because it cannot cause any
   IPsec integrity check to fail.  As a consequence, IPsec does not
   provide any defense against an adversary's modification of the ECN
   field (i.e., a man-in-the-middle attack), as the adversary's
   modification will also have no effect on IPsec's end-to-end security.
   In some environments, the ability to modify the ECN field without
   affecting IPsec integrity checks may constitute a covert channel; if
   it is necessary to eliminate such a channel or reduce its bandwidth,
   then the IPsec tunnel should be run in limited-functionality mode.

