9.2.1.  Negotiation between Tunnel Endpoints

   This section describes the detailed changes to enable usage of ECN
   over IPsec tunnels, including the negotiation of ECN support between
   tunnel endpoints.  This is supported by three changes to IPsec:

      * An optional Security Association Database (SAD) field indicating
        whether tunnel encapsulation and decapsulation processing allows
        or forbids ECN usage in the outer IP header.

      * An optional Security Association Attribute that enables
        negotiation of this SAD field between the two endpoints of an SA
        that supports tunnel mode.

      * Changes to tunnel mode encapsulation and decapsulation
        processing to allow or forbid ECN usage in the outer IP header
        based on the value of the SAD field.  When ECN usage is allowed
        in the outer IP header, the ECT codepoint is set in the outer
        header for ECN-capable connections and congestion notifications
        (indicated by the CE codepoint) from such connections are
        propagated to the inner header at tunnel egress.

   If negotiation of ECN usage is implemented, then the SAD field SHOULD
   also be implemented.  On the other hand, negotiation of ECN usage is
   OPTIONAL in all cases, even for implementations that support the SAD
   field.  The encapsulation and decapsulation processing changes are
   REQUIRED, but MAY be implemented without the other two changes by
   assuming that ECN usage is always forbidden.  The full-functionality
   alternative for ECN usage over IPsec tunnels consists of the SAD
   field and the full version of encapsulation and decapsulation
   processing changes, with or without the OPTIONAL negotiation support.
   The limited-functionality alternative consists of a subset of the
   encapsulation and decapsulation changes that always forbids ECN
   usage.



Ramakrishnan, et al.        Standards Track                    [Page 31]

RFC 3168               The Addition of ECN to IP          September 2001


   These changes are covered further in the following three subsections.

