9.2.3.  Comments for IPsec Support

   Substantial comments were received on two areas of this document
   during review by the IPsec working group.  This section describes
   these comments and explains why the proposed changes were not
   incorporated.

   The first comment indicated that per-node configuration is easier to
   implement than per-SA configuration.  After serious thought and
   despite some initial encouragement of per-node configuration, it no
   longer seems to be a good idea. The concern is that as ECN-awareness
   is progressively deployed in IPsec, many ECN-aware IPsec
   implementations will find themselves communicating with a mixture of
   ECN-aware and ECN-unaware IPsec tunnel endpoints.  In such an
   environment with per-node configuration, the only reasonable thing to
   do is forbid ECN usage for all IPsec tunnels, which is not the
   desired outcome.

   In the second area, several reviewers noted that SA negotiation is
   complex, and adding to it is non-trivial.  One reviewer suggested
   using ICMP after tunnel setup as a possible alternative.  The
   addition to SA negotiation in this document is OPTIONAL and will
   remain so; implementers are free to ignore it.  The authors believe
   that the assurance it provides can be useful in a number of
   situations.  In practice, if this is not implemented, it can be
   deleted at a subsequent stage in the standards process.  Extending
   ICMP to negotiate ECN after tunnel setup is more complex than
   extending SA attribute negotiation.  Some tunnels do not permit
   traffic to be addressed to the tunnel egress endpoint, hence the ICMP
   packet would have to be addressed to somewhere else, scanned for by
   the egress endpoint, and discarded there or at its actual
   destination.  In addition, ICMP delivery is unreliable, and hence
   there is a possibility of an ICMP packet being dropped, entailing the
   invention of yet another ack/retransmit mechanism.  It seems better
   simply to specify an OPTIONAL extension to the existing SA
   negotiation mechanism.



Ramakrishnan, et al.        Standards Track                    [Page 35]

RFC 3168               The Addition of ECN to IP          September 2001


