10.  Issues Raised by Monitoring and Policing Devices

   One possibility is that monitoring and policing devices (or more
   informally, "penalty boxes") will be installed in the network to
   monitor whether best-effort flows are appropriately responding to
   congestion, and to preferentially drop packets from flows determined
   not to be using adequate end-to-end congestion control procedures.

   We recommend that any "penalty box" that detects a flow or an
   aggregate of flows that is not responding to end-to-end congestion
   control first change from marking to dropping packets from that flow,
   before taking any additional action to restrict the bandwidth
   available to that flow.  Thus, initially, the router may drop packets
   in which the router would otherwise would have set the CE codepoint.
   This could include dropping those arriving packets for that flow that
   are ECN-Capable and that already have the CE codepoint set.  In this
   way, any congestion indications seen by that router for that flow
   will be guaranteed to also be seen by the end nodes, even in the
   presence of malicious or broken routers elsewhere in the path.  If we
   assume that the first action taken at any "penalty box" for an ECN-
   capable flow will be to drop packets instead of marking them, then
   there is no way that an adversary that subverts ECN-based end-to-end
   congestion control can cause a flow to be characterized as being
   non-cooperative and placed into a more severe action within the
   "penalty box".

   The monitoring and policing devices that are actually deployed could
   fall short of the `ideal' monitoring device described above, in that
   the monitoring is applied not to a single flow, but to an aggregate
   of flows (e.g., those sharing a single IPsec tunnel).  In this case,
   the switch from marking to dropping would apply to all of the flows
   in that aggregate, denying the benefits of ECN to the other flows in
   the aggregate also.  At the highest level of aggregation, another
   form of the disabling of ECN happens even in the absence of





Ramakrishnan, et al.        Standards Track                    [Page 36]

RFC 3168               The Addition of ECN to IP          September 2001


   monitoring and policing devices, when ECN-Capable RED queues switch
   from marking to dropping packets as an indication of congestion when
   the average queue size has exceeded some threshold.

