12.  Summary of changes required in IP and TCP

   This document specified two bits in the IP header to be used for ECN.
   The not-ECT codepoint indicates that the transport protocol will
   ignore the CE codepoint.  This is the default value for the ECN
   codepoint.  The ECT codepoints indicate that the transport protocol
   is willing and able to participate in ECN.

   The router sets the CE codepoint to indicate congestion to the end
   nodes.  The CE codepoint in a packet header MUST NOT be reset by a
   router.

   TCP requires three changes for ECN, a setup phase and two new flags
   in the TCP header. The ECN-Echo flag is used by the data receiver to
   inform the data sender of a received CE packet.  The Congestion
   Window Reduced (CWR) flag is used by the data sender to inform the
   data receiver that the congestion window has been reduced.






Ramakrishnan, et al.        Standards Track                    [Page 38]

RFC 3168               The Addition of ECN to IP          September 2001


   When ECN (Explicit Congestion Notification) is used, it is required
   that congestion indications generated within an IP tunnel not be lost
   at the tunnel egress.  We specified a minor modification to the IP
   protocol's handling of the ECN field during encapsulation and de-
   capsulation to allow flows that will undergo IP tunneling to use ECN.

   Two options for ECN in tunnels were specified:

   1) A limited-functionality option that does not use ECN inside the IP
   tunnel, by setting the ECN field in the outer header to not-ECT, and
   not altering the inner header at the time of decapsulation.

   2) The full-functionality option, which sets the ECN field in the
   outer header to either not-ECT or to one of the ECT codepoints,
   depending on the ECN field in the inner header.  At decapsulation, if
   the CE codepoint is set in the outer header, and the inner header is
   set to one of the ECT codepoints, then the CE codepoint is copied to
   the inner header.

   For IPsec tunnels, this document also defines an optional IPsec
   Security Association (SA) attribute that enables negotiation of ECN
   usage within IPsec tunnels and an optional field in the Security
   Association Database to indicate whether ECN is permitted in tunnel
   mode on a SA.  The required changes to IPsec tunnels for ECN usage
   modify RFC 2401 [RFC2401], which defines the IPsec architecture and
   specifies some aspects of its implementation.  The new IPsec SA
   attribute is in addition to those already defined in Section 4.5 of
   [RFC2407].

   This document obsoletes RFC 2481, "A Proposal to add Explicit
   Congestion Notification (ECN) to IP", which defined ECN as an
   Experimental Protocol for the Internet Community.  The rest of this
   section describes the relationship between this document and its
   predecessor.

   RFC 2481 included a brief discussion of the use of ECN with
   encapsulated packets, and noted that for the IPsec specifications at
   the time (January 1999), flows could not safely use ECN if they were
   to traverse IPsec tunnels.  RFC 2481 also described the changes that
   could be made to IPsec tunnel specifications to made them compatible
   with ECN.

   This document also incorporates work that was done after RFC 2481.
   First was to describe the changes to IPsec tunnels in detail, and
   extensively discuss the security implications of ECN (now included as
   Sections 18 and 19 of this document).  Second was to extend the
   discussion of IPsec tunnels to include all IP tunnels.  Because older
   IP tunnels are not compatible with a flow's use of ECN, the



Ramakrishnan, et al.        Standards Track                    [Page 39]

RFC 3168               The Addition of ECN to IP          September 2001


   deployment of ECN in the Internet will create strong pressure for
   older IP tunnels to be updated to an ECN-compatible version, using
   either the limited-functionality or the full-functionality option.

   This document does not address the issue of including ECN in non-IP
   tunnels such as MPLS, GRE, L2TP, or PPTP.  An earlier preliminary
   document about adding ECN support to MPLS was not advanced.

   A third new piece of work after RFC2481 was to describe the ECN
   procedure with retransmitted data packets, that an ECT codepoint
   should not be set on retransmitted data packets.  The motivation for
   this additional specification is to eliminate a possible avenue for
   denial-of-service attacks on an existing TCP connection.  Some prior
   deployments of ECN-capable TCP might not conform to the (new)
   requirement not to set an ECT codepoint on retransmitted packets; we
   do not believe this will cause significant problems in practice.

   This document also expands slightly on the specification of the use
   of SYN packets for the negotiation of ECN.  While some prior
   deployments of ECN-capable TCP might not conform to the requirements
   specified in this document, we do not believe that this will lead to
   any performance or compatibility problems for TCP connections with a
   combination of TCP implementations at the endpoints.

   This document also includes the specification of the ECT(1)
   codepoint, which may be used by TCP as part of the implementation of
   an ECN nonce.

