18.1.1.  Erasing the Congestion Indication

   First, we consider the changes that a router could make that would
   result in effectively erasing the congestion indication after it had
   been set by a router upstream.  The convention followed is:  ECN
   codepoint of received packet -> ECN codepoint of packet transmitted.

   Replacing the CE codepoint with the ECT(0) or ECT(1) codepoint
   effectively erases the congestion indication.  However, with the use
   of two ECT codepoints, a router erasing the CE codepoint has no way
   to know whether the original ECT codepoint was ECT(0) or ECT(1).
   Thus, it is possible for the transport protocol to deploy mechanisms
   to detect such erasures of the CE codepoint.

   The consequence of the erasure of the CE codepoint for the upstream
   router is that there is a potential for congestion to build for a
   time, because the congestion indication does not reach the source.
   However, the packet would be received and acknowledged.

   The potential effect of erasing the congestion indication is complex,
   and is discussed in depth in Section 19 below.  Note that the effect
   of erasing the congestion indication is different from dropping a
   packet in the network.  When a data packet is dropped, the drop is
   detected by the TCP sender, and interpreted as an indication of
   congestion.  Similarly, if a sufficient number of consecutive
   acknowledgement packets are dropped, causing the cumulative
   acknowledgement field not to be advanced at the sender, the sender is
   limited by the congestion window from sending additional packets, and
   ultimately the retransmit timer expires.

   In contrast, a systematic erasure of the CE bit by a downstream
   router can have the effect of causing a queue buildup at an upstream
   router, including the possible loss of packets due to buffer
   overflow.  There is a potential of unfairness in that another flow
   that goes through the congested router could react to the CE bit set
   while the flow that has the CE bit erased could see better
   performance.  The limitations on this potential unfairness are
   discussed in more detail in Section 19 below.

   The last of the three changes is to replace the CE codepoint with the
   not-ECT codepoint, thus erasing the congestion indication and
   disabling ECN-Capability at the same time.

   The `erasure' of the congestion indication is only effective if the
   packet does not end up being marked or dropped again by a downstream
   router.  If the CE codepoint is replaced by an ECT codepoint, the



Ramakrishnan, et al.        Standards Track                    [Page 46]

RFC 3168               The Addition of ECN to IP          September 2001


   packet remains ECN-Capable, and could be either marked or dropped by
   a downstream router as an indication of congestion.  If the CE
   codepoint is replaced by the not-ECT codepoint, the packet is no
   longer ECN-capable, and can therefore be dropped but not marked by a
   downstream router as an indication of congestion.

