18.2.  Information carried in the Transport Header

   For TCP, an ECN-capable TCP receiver informs its TCP peer that it is
   ECN-capable at the TCP level, conveying this information in the TCP
   header at the time the connection is setup.  This document does not
   consider potential dangers introduced by changes in the transport
   header within the network.  We note that when IPsec is used, the
   transport header is protected both in tunnel and transport modes
   [ESP, AH].

   Another issue concerns TCP packets with a spoofed IP source address
   carrying invalid ECN information in the transport header.  For
   completeness, we examine here some possible ways that a node spoofing
   the IP source address of another node could use the two ECN flags in
   the TCP header to launch a denial-of-service attack. However, these
   attacks would require an ability for the attacker to use valid TCP
   sequence numbers, and any attacker with this ability and with the
   ability to spoof IP source addresses could damage the TCP connection
   without using the ECN flags.  Therefore, ECN does not add any new
   vulnerabilities in this respect.

   An acknowledgement packet with a spoofed IP source address of the TCP
   data receiver could include the ECE bit set.  If accepted by the TCP
   data sender as a valid packet, this spoofed acknowledgement packet
   could result in the TCP data sender unnecessarily halving its
   congestion window.  However, to be accepted by the data sender, such
   a spoofed acknowledgement packet would have to have the correct 32-
   bit sequence number as well as a valid acknowledgement number.  An
   attacker that could successfully send such a spoofed acknowledgement
   packet could also send a spoofed RST packet, or do other equally
   damaging operations to the TCP connection.

   Packets with a spoofed IP source address of the TCP data sender could
   include the CWR bit set.  Again, to be accepted, such a packet would
   have to have a valid sequence number.  In addition, such a spoofed
   packet would have a limited performance impact.  Spoofing a data
   packet with the CWR bit set could result in the TCP data receiver



Ramakrishnan, et al.        Standards Track                    [Page 48]

RFC 3168               The Addition of ECN to IP          September 2001


   sending fewer ECE packets than it would otherwise, if the data
   receiver was sending ECE packets when it received the spoofed CWR
   packet.

