19.2.  Implications for the Subverted Flow

   When a source indicates that it is ECN-capable, there is an
   expectation that the routers in the network that are capable of
   participating in ECN will use the CE codepoint for indication of
   congestion. There is the potential benefit of using ECN in reducing
   the amount of packet loss (in addition to the reduced queuing delays
   because of active queue management policies).  When the packet flows
   through an IPsec tunnel where the nodes that the tunneled packets
   traverse are untrusted in some way, the expectation is that IPsec
   will protect the flow from subversion that results in undesirable
   consequences.

   In many cases, a subverted flow will benefit from the subversion of
   end-to-end congestion control for that flow in the network, by
   receiving more bandwidth than it would have otherwise, relative to
   competing non-subverted flows.  If the congested queue reaches the
   packet-dropping stage, then the subversion of end-to-end congestion
   control might or might not be of overall benefit to the subverted
   flow, depending on that flow's relative tradeoffs between throughput,
   loss, and delay.

   One form of subverting end-to-end congestion control is to falsely
   indicate ECN-capability by setting the ECT codepoint.  This has the
   consequence of downstream congested routers setting the CE codepoint
   in vain.  However, as described in Section 9.1.2, if an ECT codepoint
   is changed in an IP tunnel, this can be detected at the egress point
   of the tunnel, as long as the inner header was not changed within the
   tunnel.

   The second form of subverting end-to-end congestion control is to
   erase the congestion indication by erasing the CE codepoint.  In this
   case, it is the upstream congested routers that set the CE codepoint
   in vain.

   If an ECT codepoint is erased within an IP tunnel, then this can be
   detected at the egress point of the tunnel, as long as the inner
   header was not changed within the tunnel.  If the CE codepoint is set
   upstream of the IP tunnel, then any erasure of the outer header's CE
   codepoint within the tunnel will have no effect because the inner
   header preserves the set value of the CE codepoint.  However, if the
   CE codepoint is set within the tunnel, and erased either within or
   downstream of the tunnel, this is not necessarily detected at the
   egress point of the tunnel.

   With this subversion of end-to-end congestion control, an end-system
   transport does not respond to the congestion indication.  Along with
   the increased unfairness for the non-subverted flows described in the



Ramakrishnan, et al.        Standards Track                    [Page 53]

RFC 3168               The Addition of ECN to IP          September 2001


   previous section, the congested router's queue could continue to
   build, resulting in packet loss at the congested router - which is a
   means for indicating congestion to the transport in any case.  In the
   interim, the flow might experience higher queuing delays, possibly
   along with an increased bandwidth relative to other non-subverted
   flows.  But transports do not inherently make assumptions of
   consistently experiencing carefully managed queuing in the path.  We
   believe that these forms of subverting end-to-end congestion control
   are no worse for the subverted flow than if the adversary had simply
   dropped the packets of that flow itself.

