20.2.  The Motivation for two ECT Codepoints.

   The primary motivation for the two ECT codepoints is to provide a
   one-bit ECN nonce.  The ECN nonce allows the development of
   mechanisms for the sender to probabilistically verify that network
   elements are not erasing the CE codepoint, and that data receivers
   are properly reporting to the sender the receipt of packets with the
   CE codepoint set.





Ramakrishnan, et al.        Standards Track                    [Page 55]

RFC 3168               The Addition of ECN to IP          September 2001


   Another possibility for senders to detect misbehaving network
   elements or receivers would be for the data sender to occasionally
   send a data packet with the CE codepoint set, to see if the receiver
   reports receiving the CE codepoint.  Of course, if these packets
   encountered congestion in the network, the router might make no
   change in the packets, because the CE codepoint would already be set.
   Thus, for packets sent with the CE codepoint set, the TCP end-nodes
   could not determine if some router intended to set the CE codepoint
   in these packets.  For this reason, sending packets with the CE
   codepoint would have to be done sparingly, and would be a less
   effective check against misbehaving network elements and receivers
   than would be the ECN nonce.

   The assignment of the fourth ECN codepoint to ECT(1) precludes the
   use of this codepoint for some other purposes.  For clarity, we
   briefly list other possible purposes here.

   One possibility might have been for the data sender to use the fourth
   ECN codepoint to indicate an alternate semantics for ECN.  However,
   this seems to us more appropriate to be signaled using a
   differentiated services codepoint in the DS field.

   A second possible use for the fourth ECN codepoint would have been to
   give the router two separate codepoints for the indication of
   congestion, CE(0) and CE(1), for mild and severe congestion
   respectively.  While this could be useful in some cases, this
   certainly does not seem a compelling requirement at this point.  If
   there was judged to be a compelling need for this, the complications
   of incremental deployment would most likely necessitate more that
   just one codepoint for this function.

   A third use that has been informally proposed for the ECN codepoint
   is for use in some forms of multicast congestion control, based on
   randomized procedures for duplicating marked packets at routers.
   Some proposed multicast packet duplication procedures are based on a
   new ECN codepoint that (1) conveys the fact that congestion occurred
   upstream of the duplication point that marked the packet with this
   codepoint and (2) can detect congestion downstream of that
   duplication point.  ECT(1) can serve this purpose because it is both
   distinct from ECT(0) and is replaced by CE when ECN marking occurs in
   response to congestion or incipient congestion.  Explanation of how
   this enhanced version of ECN would be used by multicast congestion
   control is beyond the scope of this document, as are ECN-aware
   multicast packet duplication procedures and the processing of the ECN
   field at multicast receivers in all cases (i.e., irrespective of the
   multicast packet duplication procedure(s) used).





Ramakrishnan, et al.        Standards Track                    [Page 56]

RFC 3168               The Addition of ECN to IP          September 2001


   The specification of IP tunnel modifications for ECN in this document
   assumes that the only change made to the outer IP header's ECN field
   between tunnel endpoints is to set the CE codepoint to indicate
   congestion.  This is not consistent with some of the proposed uses of
   ECT(1) by the multicast duplication procedures in the previous
   paragraph, and such procedures SHOULD NOT be deployed unless this
   inconsistency between multicast duplication procedures and IP tunnels
   with full ECN functionality is resolved.  Limited ECN functionality
   may be used instead, although in practice many tunnel protocols
   (including IPsec) will not work correctly if multicast traffic
   duplication occurs within the tunnel

