21.  Why use Two Bits in the IP Header?

   Given the need for an ECT indication in the IP header, there still
   remains the question of whether the ECT (ECN-Capable Transport) and
   CE (Congestion Experienced) codepoints should have been overloaded on
   a single bit.  This overloaded-one-bit alternative, explored in
   [Floyd94], would have involved a single bit with two values.  One
   value, "ECT and not CE", would represent an ECN-Capable Transport,
   and the other value, "CE or not ECT", would represent either
   Congestion Experienced or a non-ECN-Capable transport.

   One difference between the one-bit and two-bit implementations
   concerns packets that traverse multiple congested routers.  Consider
   a CE packet that arrives at a second congested router, and is
   selected by the active queue management at that router for either
   marking or dropping.  In the one-bit implementation, the second
   congested router has no choice but to drop the CE packet, because it
   cannot distinguish between a CE packet and a non-ECT packet.  In the
   two-bit implementation, the second congested router has the choice of
   either dropping the CE packet, or of leaving it alone with the CE
   codepoint set.

   Another difference between the one-bit and two-bit implementations
   comes from the fact that with the one-bit implementation, receivers
   in a single flow cannot distinguish between CE and non-ECT packets.
   Thus, in the one-bit implementation an ECN-capable data sender would
   have to unambiguously indicate to the receiver or receivers whether
   each packet had been sent as ECN-Capable or as non-ECN-Capable.  One
   possibility would be for the sender to indicate in the transport
   header whether the packet was sent as ECN-Capable.  A second
   possibility that would involve a functional limitation for the one-
   bit implementation would be for the sender to unambiguously indicate
   that it was going to send *all* of its packets as ECN-Capable or as
   non-ECN-Capable.  For a multicast transport protocol, this
   unambiguous indication would have to be apparent to receivers joining
   an on-going multicast session.



Ramakrishnan, et al.        Standards Track                    [Page 57]

RFC 3168               The Addition of ECN to IP          September 2001


   Another concern that was described earlier (and recommended in this
   document) is that transports (particularly TCP) should not mark pure
   ACK packets or retransmitted packets as being ECN-Capable.  A pure
   ACK packet from a non-ECN-capable transport could be dropped, without
   necessarily having an impact on the transport from a congestion
   control perspective (because subsequent ACKs are cumulative).  An
   ECN-capable transport reacting to the CE codepoint in a pure ACK
   packet by reducing the window would be at a disadvantage in
   comparison to a non-ECN-capable transport. For this reason (and for
   reasons described earlier in relation to retransmitted packets), it
   is desirable to have the ECT codepoint set on a per-packet basis.

   Another advantage of the two-bit approach is that it is somewhat more
   robust.  The most critical issue, discussed in Section 8, is that the
   default indication should be that of a non-ECN-Capable transport.  In
   a two-bit implementation, this requirement for the default value
   simply means that the not-ECT codepoint should be the default.  In
   the one-bit implementation, this means that the single overloaded bit
   should by default be in the "CE or not ECT" position.  This is less
   clear and straightforward, and possibly more open to incorrect
   implementations either in the end nodes or in the routers.

   In summary, while the one-bit implementation could be a possible
   implementation, it has the following significant limitations relative
   to the two-bit implementation.  First, the one-bit implementation has
   more limited functionality for the treatment of CE packets at a
   second congested router.  Second, the one-bit implementation requires
   either that extra information be carried in the transport header of
   packets from ECN-Capable flows (to convey the functionality of the
   second bit elsewhere, namely in the transport header), or that
   senders in ECN-Capable flows accept the limitation that receivers
   must be able to determine a priori which packets are ECN-Capable and
   which are not ECN-Capable. Third, the one-bit implementation is
   possibly more open to errors from faulty implementations that choose
   the wrong default value for the ECN bit.  We believe that the use of
   the extra bit in the IP header for the ECT-bit is extremely valuable
   to overcome these limitations.

