ERROR::PASS2(7stap)                                                                               ERROR::PASS2(7stap)

NAME
       error::pass2 - systemtap pass-2 errors

DESCRIPTION
       Errors that occur during pass 2 (elaboration) can have a variety of causes.  Common types include:

       missing debuginfo
              The  script  requires  debuginfo  to  resolve  a  probe  point,  but  could  not  find  any.   See  er-
              ror::dwarf(7stap) and warning::debuginfo(7stap) for more details.

       unavailable probe point classes
              Some types of probe points are only available on certain system versions, architectures, and configura-
              tions.   For example, user-space process.*  probes may require utrace or uprobes capability in the ker-
              nel for this architecture.

       unavailable probe points
              Some probe points may be individually  unavailable  even  when  their  class  is  fine.   For  example,
              kprobe.function("foobar") may fail if function foobar does not exist in the kernel any more.  Debugging
              or symbol data may be absent for some types of .function or .statement probes; check  for  availability
              of  debuginfo.   Try the stap-prep program to download possibly-required debuginfo.  Use a wildcard pa-
              rameter such as stap -l 'kprobe.function("*foo*")' to locate  still-existing  variants.   Use  !  or  ?
              probe  point suffixes to denote optional / preferred-alternatives, to let the working parts of a script
              continue.

       typos  There might be a spelling error in the probe point name ("sycsall" vs.   "syscall").   Wildcard  probes
              may  not find a match at all in the tapsets.  Recheck the names using stap -l PROBEPOINT.  Another com-
              mon mistake is to use the .  operator instead of the correct ->  when  dereferencing  context  variable
              subfields or pointers: $foo->bar->baz even if in C one would say foo->bar.baz.

       unavailable context variables
              Systemtap scripts often wish to refer to variables from the context of the probed programs using $vari-
              able notation.  These variables may not always be available, depending on versions of the compiler, de-
              bugging/optimization  flags  used, architecture, etc.  Use stap -L PROBEPOINT to list available context
              variables for given probes.  Use the @defined() expression to test for the resolvability of  a  context
              variable  expression.   Consider  using  the stap --skip-badvars option to silently replace misbehaving
              context variable expressions with zero.  Experiment with the stap --prologue-searching option.

       module cache inconsistencies
              Occasionally, the systemtap module cache ($HOME/.systemtap/cache) might  contain  obsolete  information
              from a prior system configuration/version, and produce false results as systemtap attempts to reuse it.
              Retrying with stap --poison-cache ...  forces new information to be generated.  Note: this  should  not
              happen and likely represents a systemtap bug.  Please report it.

GATHERING MORE INFORMATION
       Increasing the verbosity of pass-2 with an option such as --vp 02 can help pinpoint the problem.

SEE ALSO
       stap(1),
       stap-prep(1),
       stapprobes(3stap),
       probe::*(3stap),
       error::dwarf(7stap),
       error::inode-uprobes(7stap),
       warning::debuginfo(7stap),
       error::reporting(7stap)

                                                                                                  ERROR::PASS2(7stap)
