ERROR::PASS1(7stap)                                                                               ERROR::PASS1(7stap)

NAME
       error::pass1 - systemtap pass-1 errors

DESCRIPTION
       Errors  that occur during pass 1 (parsing) usually mean a basic syntax error of some sort occurred in the sys-
       temtap script.  There are several classes of problems possible:

       plain syntax error
              The systemtap script parser detects a large variety of errors, such as missing operands,  bad  punctua-
              tion.   It  tries to list what kinds of tokens it was expecting to see, and will show the region of the
              source code with the problem.  Please review the stap(1) man page and/or the tutorial, to  correct  the
              script's syntax.

       grammar ambiguities
              There  is  at  least  one known ambiguity in the systemtap grammar.  It relates to the optionality of ;
              (semicolon) separators between statements, and the ++ and --  increment/decrement  operators.   If  the
              parser indicates an error, consider adding some explicit ; separators between nearby statements and try
              again.

       missing command line arguments
              A systemtap script that uses the $N and @N constructs for substituting in command-line options may fail
              if not enough options were given on the stap command line.

       compatibility changes
              Some  versions of systemtap have changed the language incompatibly, for example by adding the try/catch
              keywords for exception handling.  In such cases, rerun systemtap with the  --compatibility=VERSION  op-
              tion,  substituting the last systemtap version where your script was known to work.  You may also check
              the release-history NEWS file for compatibility changes.

GATHERING MORE INFORMATION
       Increasing the verbosity of pass-1 with an option such as --vp 1 can help pinpoint the problem.

SEE ALSO
       stap(1),
       error::reporting(7stap)

                                                                                                  ERROR::PASS1(7stap)
