ERROR::DWARF(7stap)                                                                               ERROR::DWARF(7stap)

NAME
       error::dwarf - dwarf debuginfo quality problems

DESCRIPTION
       Systemtap  sometimes  relies on ELF/DWARF debuginfo for programs being instrumented to locate places to probe,
       or context variables to read/write, just like a symbolic debugger does.  Even though examination of  the  pro-
       gram's  source code may show variables or lines where probes may be desired, the compiler must preserve infor-
       mation about them for systemtap (or a debugger such as gdb) to get pinpoint access to the desired information.
       If a script requires such data, but the compiler did not preserve enough of it, pass-2 errors may result.

       Common conditions that trigger these problems include:

       debuginfo missing or mismatching
              Sometimes  debuginfo  is installed, but does not match the binaries being probed.  See the warning::de-
              buginfo man page for more help for locating correct debuginfo.

       compiler version
              Prior to GCC version 4.5, debuginfo quality was fairly limited.  Often developers were advised to build
              their programs with -O0 -g flags to disable optimization.  GCC version 4.5 introduced a facility called
              "variable-tracking assignments" that allows it to generate high-quality debuginfo under full -O2 -g op-
              timization.   It  is  not  perfect,  but  much  better  than before.  Note that, due to another gcc bug
              (PR51358) -O0 -g can actually sometimes make debuginfo quality worse than for -O2 -g.

              Another related problem involves debuginfo quality for the  prologue  area  of  a  function  (PR15123),
              wherein  a  program compiled with CFLAGS=-mfentry (especially the kernel, for ftrace) may lack accurate
              debuginfo for the entry instructions for gcc prior to version 4.8.  If able, arrange  to  compile  your
              programs    with    -grecord-gcc-switches    CFLAGS,    and/or    try    rerunning    systemtap    with
              $PR15123_ASSUME_MFENTRY=1.

       linux kbuild damaging debuginfo quality
              An upstream kernel commit #2062afb4f804a put -fno-var-tracking-assignments into  KCFLAGS,  dramatically
              reducing  debuginfo  quality, which can cause debuginfo failures. The simplest fix is to erase, excise,
              nay, eradicate this line from the top level linux Makefile:

              KBUILD_CFLAGS += [...] -fno-var-tracking-assignments [...]

       function inlining
              Even modern gcc sometimes has problems with parameters for inlined functions.  It may be  necessary  to
              change  the  script  to  probe  at  a slightly different place.  Try a .statement() probe, instead of a
              .function() probe, somewhere a few source lines into the body of the inlined function.  Or try  putting
              a probe at the call site of the inlined function.  Or use the if @defined($var) { ... } script language
              construct to test for the resolvability of the context variable before using it.

       instruction reordering
              Heavily optimized code often smears the instructions from multiple source  statements  together.   This
              can leave systemtap with no place to choose to place a probe, especially a statement probe specified by
              line number.  Systemtap may advise to try a nearby line number, but these may  not  work  well  either.
              Consider placing a probe by a statement wildcard or line number range.

       elfutils configuration
              It  is  possible  that the DWARF debuginfo being sought is available, but not in a format acceptable to
              the copy of elfutils used by systemtap.  For example, your copy of gcc might produce compressed  debug-
              info  (.zdebug_*  ELF  sections or .xz files) while your copy of elfutils might lack appropriate decom-
              pression capabilities.  Unfortunately, there is no easy way to tell if this is the problem.  If  you're
              building your own copy of elfutils, ensure all decompression library headers/libraries are available at
              build time.

       debuginfo configuration
              Some tools may generate debuginfo that is unsupported by systemtap, such as the linux kernel CONFIG_DE-
              BUG_INFO_SPLIT  (.dwo  files)  option.   Stick with plain ELF/DWARF (optinally split, Fedora-style), if
              possible.

ALTERNATIVES
       In order to reduce reliance on ELF/DWARF debuginfo, consider the use of  statically  compiled-in  instrumenta-
       tion, such as kernel tracepoints, or <sys/sdt.h> userspace markers.  Such instrumentation hook sites are rela-
       tively low cost (just one NOP instruction for sdt.h), and nearly guarantee the availability of parameter  data
       and a reliable probe site, all without reliance on debuginfo.

SEE ALSO
       stap(1),
       http://dwarfstd.org/,
       http://sourceware.org/systemtap/wiki/TipContextVariables,
       http://gcc.gnu.org/wiki/Var_Tracking_Assignments,
       warning::debuginfo(7stap),
       warning::buildid(7stap),
       error::reporting(7stap)

                                                                                                  ERROR::DWARF(7stap)
