REPOCLOSURE(1)                                     dnf-plugins-core                                    REPOCLOSURE(1)

NAME
       repoclosure - redirecting to DNF repoclosure Plugin

       Display a list of unresolved dependencies for repositories.

SYNOPSIS
       dnf repoclosure [<options>]

DESCRIPTION
       repoclosure  is  a program that reads package metadata from one or more repositories, checks all dependencies,
       and displays a list of packages with unresolved dependencies.

   Options
       All general DNF options are accepted, see Options in dnf(8) for details.

       --arch <arch>
              Query only packages for specified architecture, can be specified multiple times (default is all compat-
              ible  architectures  with  your  system). To run repoclosure for arch incompatible with your system use
              --forcearch=<arch> option to change basearch.

       --best Check only the newest packages per arch.

       --check <repoid>
              Specify repo ids to check, can be specified multiple times (default is all enabled).

       --newest
              Check only the newest packages in the repos.

       --pkg <pkg-spec>
              Check closure for this package only.

       --repo <repoid>
              Specify repo ids to query, can be specified multiple times (default is all enabled).

EXAMPLES
       Display list of unresolved dependencies for all enabled repositories:

          dnf repoclosure

       Display list of unresolved dependencies for rawhide repository  and  packages  with  architecture  noarch  and
       x86_64:

          dnf repoclosure --repo rawhide --arch noarch --arch x86_64

       Display list of unresolved dependencies for zmap package from rawhide repository:

          dnf repoclosure --repo rawhide --pkg zmap

       Display list of unresolved dependencies for myrepo, an add-on for the rawhide repository:

          dnf repoclosure --repo rawhide --check myrepo

AUTHOR
       See AUTHORS in your Core DNF Plugins distribution

COPYRIGHT
       2021, Red Hat, Licensed under GPLv2+

4.0.22                                               Jun 15, 2021                                      REPOCLOSURE(1)
