YUMDOWNLOADER(1)                                   dnf-plugins-core                                  YUMDOWNLOADER(1)

NAME
       yumdownloader - redirecting to DNF download Plugin

       Download binary or source packages.

SYNOPSIS
       dnf download [options] <pkg-spec>...

ARGUMENTS
       <pkg-spec>
              Package specification for the package to download.  Local RPMs can be specified as well. This is useful
              with the --source option or if you want to download the same RPM again.

OPTIONS
       All general DNF options are accepted, see Options in dnf(8) for details.

       --help-cmd
              Show this help.

       --arch <arch>[,<arch>...]
              Limit the query to packages of given architectures (default is all compatible architectures  with  your
              system).  To download packages with arch incompatible with your system use --forcearch=<arch> option to
              change basearch.

       --source
              Download the source rpm. Enables source repositories of all enabled binary repositories.

       --debuginfo
              Download the debuginfo rpm. Enables debuginfo repositories of all enabled binary repositories.

       --downloaddir
              Download directory, default is the current directory (the directory must exist).

       --url  Instead of downloading, print list of urls where the rpms can be downloaded.

       --urlprotocol
              Limit the protocol of the urls output by the --url option. Options are http, https, rsync, ftp.

       --resolve
              Resolves dependencies of specified packages and downloads missing dependencies in the system.

       --alldeps
              When used with --resolve, download all dependencies (do not skip already installed ones).

EXAMPLES
       dnf download dnf
              Download the latest dnf package to the current directory.

       dnf download --url dnf
              Just print the remote location url where the dnf rpm can be downloaded from.

       dnf download --url --urlprotocols=https --urlprotocols=rsync dnf
              Same as above, but limit urls to https or rsync urls.

       dnf download dnf --destdir /tmp/dnl
              Download the latest dnf package to the /tmp/dnl directory (the directory must exist).

       dnf download dnf --source
              Download the latest dnf source package to the current directory.

       dnf download rpm --debuginfo
              Download the latest rpm-debuginfo package to the current directory.

       dnf download btanks --resolve
              Download the latest btanks package and the uninstalled dependencies to the current directory.

AUTHOR
       See AUTHORS in your Core DNF Plugins distribution

COPYRIGHT
       2021, Red Hat, Licensed under GPLv2+

4.0.22                                               Jun 15, 2021                                    YUMDOWNLOADER(1)
