1.  Introduction

   Multiple packet losses from a window of data can have a catastrophic
   effect on TCP throughput. TCP [Postel81] uses a cumulative
   acknowledgment scheme in which received segments that are not at the
   left edge of the receive window are not acknowledged.  This forces
   the sender to either wait a roundtrip time to find out about each
   lost packet, or to unnecessarily retransmit segments which have been
   correctly received [Fall95].  With the cumulative acknowledgment
   scheme, multiple dropped segments generally cause TCP to lose its
   ACK-based clock, reducing overall throughput.

   Selective Acknowledgment (SACK) is a strategy which corrects this
   behavior in the face of multiple dropped segments.  With selective
   acknowledgments, the data receiver can inform the sender about all
   segments that have arrived successfully, so the sender need
   retransmit only the segments that have actually been lost.

   Several transport protocols, including NETBLT [Clark87], XTP
   [Strayer92], RDP [Velten84], NADIR [Huitema81], and VMTP [Cheriton88]
   have used selective acknowledgment.  There is some empirical evidence
   in favor of selective acknowledgments -- simple experiments with RDP
   have shown that disabling the selective acknowledgment facility
   greatly increases the number of retransmitted segments over a lossy,
   high-delay Internet path [Partridge87]. A recent simulation study by
   Kevin Fall and Sally Floyd [Fall95], demonstrates the strength of TCP
   with SACK over the non-SACK Tahoe and Reno TCP implementations.

   RFC1072 [VJ88] describes one possible implementation of SACK options
   for TCP.  Unfortunately, it has never been deployed in the Internet,
   as there was disagreement about how SACK options should be used in
   conjunction with the TCP window shift option (initially described
   RFC1072 and revised in [Jacobson92]).

   We propose slight modifications to the SACK options as proposed in
   RFC1072.  Specifically, sending a selective acknowledgment for the
   most recently received data reduces the need for long SACK options
   [Keshav94, Mathis95].  In addition, the SACK option now carries full
   32 bit sequence numbers.  These two modifications represent the only
   changes to the proposal in RFC1072.  They make SACK easier to
   implement and address concerns about robustness.

   The selective acknowledgment extension uses two TCP options. The
   first is an enabling option, "SACK-permitted", which may be sent in a
   SYN segment to indicate that the SACK option can be used once the
   connection is established.  The other is the SACK option itself,
   which may be sent over an established connection once permission has
   been given by SACK-permitted.



Mathis, et. al.             Standards Track                     [Page 2]

RFC 2018         TCP Selective Acknowledgement Options      October 1996


   The SACK option is to be included in a segment sent from a TCP that
   is receiving data to the TCP that is sending that data; we will refer
   to these TCP's as the data receiver and the data sender,
   respectively.  We will consider a particular simplex data flow; any
   data flowing in the reverse direction over the same connection can be
   treated independently.

