6.  Efficiency and Worst Case Behavior

   If the return path carrying ACKs and SACK options were lossless, one
   block per SACK option packet would always be sufficient.  Every
   segment arriving while the data receiver holds discontinuous data
   would cause the data receiver to send an ACK with a SACK option
   containing the one altered block in the receiver's queue.  The data
   sender is thus able to construct a precise replica of the receiver's
   queue by taking the union of all the first SACK blocks.














Mathis, et. al.             Standards Track                     [Page 7]

RFC 2018         TCP Selective Acknowledgement Options      October 1996


   Since the return path is not lossless, the SACK option is defined to
   include more than one SACK block in a single packet.  The redundant
   blocks in the SACK option packet increase the robustness of SACK
   delivery in the presence of lost ACKs.  For a receiver that is also
   using the time stamp option [Jacobson92], the SACK option has room to
   include three SACK blocks.  Thus each SACK block will generally be
   repeated at least three times, if necessary, once in each of three
   successive ACK packets.  However, if all of the ACK packets reporting
   a particular SACK block are dropped, then the sender might assume
   that the data in that SACK block has not been received, and
   unnecessarily retransmit those segments.

   The deployment of other TCP options may reduce the number of
   available SACK blocks to 2 or even to 1.  This will reduce the
   redundancy of SACK delivery in the presence of lost ACKs.  Even so,
   the exposure of TCP SACK in regard to the unnecessary retransmission
   of packets is strictly less than the exposure of current
   implementations of TCP.  The worst-case conditions necessary for the
   sender to needlessly retransmit data is discussed in more detail in a
   separate document [Floyd96].

   Older TCP implementations which do not have the SACK option will not
   be unfairly disadvantaged when competing against SACK-capable TCPs.
   This issue is discussed in more detail in [Floyd96].

