4.  Generating Sack Options: Data Receiver Behavior

   If the data receiver has received a SACK-Permitted option on the SYN
   for this connection, the data receiver MAY elect to generate SACK
   options as described below.  If the data receiver generates SACK
   options under any circumstance, it SHOULD generate them under all
   permitted circumstances.  If the data receiver has not received a
   SACK-Permitted option for a given connection, it MUST NOT send SACK
   options on that connection.

   If sent at all, SACK options SHOULD be included in all ACKs which do
   not ACK the highest sequence number in the data receiver's queue.  In
   this situation the network has lost or mis-ordered data, such that
   the receiver holds non-contiguous data in its queue.  RFC 1122,
   Section 4.2.2.21, discusses the reasons for the receiver to send ACKs
   in response to additional segments received in this state.  The
   receiver SHOULD send an ACK for every valid segment that arrives
   containing new data, and each of these "duplicate" ACKs SHOULD bear a
   SACK option.

   If the data receiver chooses to send a SACK option, the following
   rules apply:

      * The first SACK block (i.e., the one immediately following the
      kind and length fields in the option) MUST specify the contiguous
      block of data containing the segment which triggered this ACK,
      unless that segment advanced the Acknowledgment Number field in
      the header.  This assures that the ACK with the SACK option
      reflects the most recent change in the data receiver's buffer
      queue.

      * The data receiver SHOULD include as many distinct SACK blocks as
      possible in the SACK option.  Note that the maximum available
      option space may not be sufficient to report all blocks present in
      the receiver's queue.

      * The SACK option SHOULD be filled out by repeating the most
      recently reported SACK blocks (based on first SACK blocks in
      previous SACK options) that are not subsets of a SACK block
      already included in the SACK option being constructed.  This
      assures that in normal operation, any segment remaining part of a
      non-contiguous block of data held by the data receiver is reported
      in at least three successive SACK options, even for large-window
      TCP implementations [RFC1323]).  After the first SACK block, the
      following SACK blocks in the SACK option may be listed in
      arbitrary order.





Mathis, et. al.             Standards Track                     [Page 5]

RFC 2018         TCP Selective Acknowledgement Options      October 1996


   It is very important that the SACK option always reports the block
   containing the most recently received segment, because this provides
   the sender with the most up-to-date information about the state of
   the network and the data receiver's queue.

