5.  Interpreting the Sack Option and Retransmission Strategy: Data
   Sender Behavior

   When receiving an ACK containing a SACK option, the data sender
   SHOULD record the selective acknowledgment for future reference.  The
   data sender is assumed to have a retransmission queue that contains
   the segments that have been transmitted but not yet acknowledged, in
   sequence-number order.  If the data sender performs re-packetization
   before retransmission, the block boundaries in a SACK option that it
   receives may not fall on boundaries of segments in the retransmission
   queue; however, this does not pose a serious difficulty for the
   sender.

   One possible implementation of the sender's behavior is as follows.
   Let us suppose that for each segment in the retransmission queue
   there is a (new) flag bit "SACKed", to be used to indicate that this
   particular segment has been reported in a SACK option.

   When an acknowledgment segment arrives containing a SACK option, the
   data sender will turn on the SACKed bits for segments that have been
   selectively acknowledged.  More specifically, for each block in the
   SACK option, the data sender will turn on the SACKed flags for all
   segments in the retransmission queue that are wholly contained within
   that block.  This requires straightforward sequence number
   comparisons.

   After the SACKed bit is turned on (as the result of processing a
   received SACK option), the data sender will skip that segment during
   any later retransmission.  Any segment that has the SACKed bit turned
   off and is less than the highest SACKed segment is available for
   retransmission.

   After a retransmit timeout the data sender SHOULD turn off all of the
   SACKed bits, since the timeout might indicate that the data receiver
   has reneged.  The data sender MUST retransmit the segment at the left
   edge of the window after a retransmit timeout, whether or not the
   SACKed bit is on for that segment.  A segment will not be dequeued
   and its buffer freed until the left window edge is advanced over it.








Mathis, et. al.             Standards Track                     [Page 6]

RFC 2018         TCP Selective Acknowledgement Options      October 1996


