5.4 Parallel Execution
======================

GNU 'make' knows how to execute several recipes at once.  Normally,
'make' will execute only one recipe at a time, waiting for it to finish
before executing the next.  However, the '-j' or '--jobs' option tells
'make' to execute many recipes simultaneously.  You can inhibit
parallelism in a particular makefile with the '.NOTPARALLEL'
pseudo-target (*note Special Built-in Target Names: Special Targets.).

   On MS-DOS, the '-j' option has no effect, since that system doesn't
support multi-processing.

   If the '-j' option is followed by an integer, this is the number of
recipes to execute at once; this is called the number of "job slots".
If there is nothing looking like an integer after the '-j' option, there
is no limit on the number of job slots.  The default number of job slots
is one, which means serial execution (one thing at a time).

   Handling recursive 'make' invocations raises issues for parallel
execution.  For more information on this, see *note Communicating
Options to a Sub-'make': Options/Recursion.

   If a recipe fails (is killed by a signal or exits with a nonzero
status), and errors are not ignored for that recipe (*note Errors in
Recipes: Errors.), the remaining recipe lines to remake the same target
will not be run.  If a recipe fails and the '-k' or '--keep-going'
option was not given (*note Summary of Options: Options Summary.),
'make' aborts execution.  If make terminates for any reason (including a
signal) with child processes running, it waits for them to finish before
actually exiting.

   When the system is heavily loaded, you will probably want to run
fewer jobs than when it is lightly loaded.  You can use the '-l' option
to tell 'make' to limit the number of jobs to run at once, based on the
load average.  The '-l' or '--max-load' option is followed by a
floating-point number.  For example,

     -l 2.5

will not let 'make' start more than one job if the load average is above
2.5.  The '-l' option with no following number removes the load limit,
if one was given with a previous '-l' option.

   More precisely, when 'make' goes to start up a job, and it already
has at least one job running, it checks the current load average; if it
is not lower than the limit given with '-l', 'make' waits until the load
average goes below that limit, or until all the other jobs finish.

   By default, there is no load limit.

* Menu:

* Parallel Output::             Handling output during parallel execution
* Parallel Input::              Handling input during parallel execution

File: make.info,  Node: Parallel Output,  Next: Parallel Input,  Prev: Parallel,  Up: Parallel

5.4.1 Output During Parallel Execution
--------------------------------------

When running several recipes in parallel the output from each recipe
appears as soon as it is generated, with the result that messages from
different recipes may be interspersed, sometimes even appearing on the
same line.  This can make reading the output very difficult.

   To avoid this you can use the '--output-sync' ('-O') option.  This
option instructs 'make' to save the output from the commands it invokes
and print it all once the commands are completed.  Additionally, if
there are multiple recursive 'make' invocations running in parallel,
they will communicate so that only one of them is generating output at a
time.

   If working directory printing is enabled (*note The
'--print-directory' Option: -w Option.), the enter/leave messages are
printed around each output grouping.  If you prefer not to see these
messages add the '--no-print-directory' option to 'MAKEFLAGS'.

   There are four levels of granularity when synchronizing output,
specified by giving an argument to the option (e.g., '-Oline' or
'--output-sync=recurse').

'none'
     This is the default: all output is sent directly as it is generated
     and no synchronization is performed.

'line'
     Output from each individual line of the recipe is grouped and
     printed as soon as that line is complete.  If a recipe consists of
     multiple lines, they may be interspersed with lines from other
     recipes.

'target'
     Output from the entire recipe for each target is grouped and
     printed once the target is complete.  This is the default if the
     '--output-sync' or '-O' option is given with no argument.

'recurse'
     Output from each recursive invocation of 'make' is grouped and
     printed once the recursive invocation is complete.

   Regardless of the mode chosen, the total build time will be the same.
The only difference is in how the output appears.

   The 'target' and 'recurse' modes both collect the output of the
entire recipe of a target and display it uninterrupted when the recipe
completes.  The difference between them is in how recipes that contain
recursive invocations of 'make' are treated (*note Recursive Use of
'make': Recursion.).  For all recipes which have no recursive lines, the
'target' and 'recurse' modes behave identically.

   If the 'recurse' mode is chosen, recipes that contain recursive
'make' invocations are treated the same as other targets: the output
from the recipe, including the output from the recursive 'make', is
saved and printed after the entire recipe is complete.  This ensures
output from all the targets built by a given recursive 'make' instance
are grouped together, which may make the output easier to understand.
However it also leads to long periods of time during the build where no
output is seen, followed by large bursts of output.  If you are not
watching the build as it proceeds, but instead viewing a log of the
build after the fact, this may be the best option for you.

   If you are watching the output, the long gaps of quiet during the
build can be frustrating.  The 'target' output synchronization mode
detects when 'make' is going to be invoked recursively, using the
standard methods, and it will not synchronize the output of those lines.
The recursive 'make' will perform the synchronization for its targets
and the output from each will be displayed immediately when it
completes.  Be aware that output from recursive lines of the recipe are
not synchronized (for example if the recursive line prints a message
before running 'make', that message will not be synchronized).

   The 'line' mode can be useful for front-ends that are watching the
output of 'make' to track when recipes are started and completed.

   Some programs invoked by 'make' may behave differently if they
determine they're writing output to a terminal versus a file (often
described as "interactive" vs.  "non-interactive" modes).  For example,
many programs that can display colorized output will not do so if they
determine they are not writing to a terminal.  If your makefile invokes
a program like this then using the output synchronization options will
cause the program to believe it's running in "non-interactive" mode even
though the output will ultimately go to the terminal.

File: make.info,  Node: Parallel Input,  Prev: Parallel Output,  Up: Parallel

5.4.2 Input During Parallel Execution
-------------------------------------

Two processes cannot both take input from the same device at the same
time.  To make sure that only one recipe tries to take input from the
terminal at once, 'make' will invalidate the standard input streams of
all but one running recipe.  If another recipe attempts to read from
standard input it will usually incur a fatal error (a 'Broken pipe'
signal).

   It is unpredictable which recipe will have a valid standard input
stream (which will come from the terminal, or wherever you redirect the
standard input of 'make').  The first recipe run will always get it
first, and the first recipe started after that one finishes will get it
next, and so on.

   We will change how this aspect of 'make' works if we find a better
alternative.  In the mean time, you should not rely on any recipe using
standard input at all if you are using the parallel execution feature;
but if you are not using this feature, then standard input works
normally in all recipes.

File: make.info,  Node: Errors,  Next: Interrupts,  Prev: Parallel,  Up: Recipes

