5.7 Recursive Use of 'make'
===========================

Recursive use of 'make' means using 'make' as a command in a makefile.
This technique is useful when you want separate makefiles for various
subsystems that compose a larger system.  For example, suppose you have
a sub-directory 'subdir' which has its own makefile, and you would like
the containing directory's makefile to run 'make' on the sub-directory.
You can do it by writing this:

     subsystem:
             cd subdir && $(MAKE)

or, equivalently, this (*note Summary of Options: Options Summary.):

     subsystem:
             $(MAKE) -C subdir

   You can write recursive 'make' commands just by copying this example,
but there are many things to know about how they work and why, and about
how the sub-'make' relates to the top-level 'make'.  You may also find
it useful to declare targets that invoke recursive 'make' commands as
'.PHONY' (for more discussion on when this is useful, see *note Phony
Targets::).

   For your convenience, when GNU 'make' starts (after it has processed
any '-C' options) it sets the variable 'CURDIR' to the pathname of the
current working directory.  This value is never touched by 'make' again:
in particular note that if you include files from other directories the
value of 'CURDIR' does not change.  The value has the same precedence it
would have if it were set in the makefile (by default, an environment
variable 'CURDIR' will not override this value).  Note that setting this
variable has no impact on the operation of 'make' (it does not cause
'make' to change its working directory, for example).

* Menu:

* MAKE Variable::               The special effects of using '$(MAKE)'.
* Variables/Recursion::         How to communicate variables to a sub-'make'.
* Options/Recursion::           How to communicate options to a sub-'make'.
* -w Option::                   How the '-w' or '--print-directory' option
                                  helps debug use of recursive 'make' commands.

File: make.info,  Node: MAKE Variable,  Next: Variables/Recursion,  Prev: Recursion,  Up: Recursion

5.7.1 How the 'MAKE' Variable Works
-----------------------------------

Recursive 'make' commands should always use the variable 'MAKE', not the
explicit command name 'make', as shown here:

     subsystem:
             cd subdir && $(MAKE)

   The value of this variable is the file name with which 'make' was
invoked.  If this file name was '/bin/make', then the recipe executed is
'cd subdir && /bin/make'.  If you use a special version of 'make' to run
the top-level makefile, the same special version will be executed for
recursive invocations.

   As a special feature, using the variable 'MAKE' in the recipe of a
rule alters the effects of the '-t' ('--touch'), '-n' ('--just-print'),
or '-q' ('--question') option.  Using the 'MAKE' variable has the same
effect as using a '+' character at the beginning of the recipe line.
*Note Instead of Executing the Recipes: Instead of Execution.  This
special feature is only enabled if the 'MAKE' variable appears directly
in the recipe: it does not apply if the 'MAKE' variable is referenced
through expansion of another variable.  In the latter case you must use
the '+' token to get these special effects.

   Consider the command 'make -t' in the above example.  (The '-t'
option marks targets as up to date without actually running any recipes;
see *note Instead of Execution::.)  Following the usual definition of
'-t', a 'make -t' command in the example would create a file named
'subsystem' and do nothing else.  What you really want it to do is run
'cd subdir && make -t'; but that would require executing the recipe, and
'-t' says not to execute recipes.

   The special feature makes this do what you want: whenever a recipe
line of a rule contains the variable 'MAKE', the flags '-t', '-n' and
'-q' do not apply to that line.  Recipe lines containing 'MAKE' are
executed normally despite the presence of a flag that causes most
recipes not to be run.  The usual 'MAKEFLAGS' mechanism passes the flags
to the sub-'make' (*note Communicating Options to a Sub-'make':
Options/Recursion.), so your request to touch the files, or print the
recipes, is propagated to the subsystem.

File: make.info,  Node: Variables/Recursion,  Next: Options/Recursion,  Prev: MAKE Variable,  Up: Recursion

5.7.2 Communicating Variables to a Sub-'make'
---------------------------------------------

Variable values of the top-level 'make' can be passed to the sub-'make'
through the environment by explicit request.  These variables are
defined in the sub-'make' as defaults, but they do not override
variables defined in the makefile used by the sub-'make' unless you use
the '-e' switch (*note Summary of Options: Options Summary.).

   To pass down, or "export", a variable, 'make' adds the variable and
its value to the environment for running each line of the recipe.  The
sub-'make', in turn, uses the environment to initialize its table of
variable values.  *Note Variables from the Environment: Environment.

   Except by explicit request, 'make' exports a variable only if it is
either defined in the environment initially or set on the command line,
and if its name consists only of letters, numbers, and underscores.
Some shells cannot cope with environment variable names consisting of
characters other than letters, numbers, and underscores.

   The value of the 'make' variable 'SHELL' is not exported.  Instead,
the value of the 'SHELL' variable from the invoking environment is
passed to the sub-'make'.  You can force 'make' to export its value for
'SHELL' by using the 'export' directive, described below.  *Note
Choosing the Shell::.

   The special variable 'MAKEFLAGS' is always exported (unless you
unexport it).  'MAKEFILES' is exported if you set it to anything.

   'make' automatically passes down variable values that were defined on
the command line, by putting them in the 'MAKEFLAGS' variable.  *Note
Options/Recursion::.

   Variables are _not_ normally passed down if they were created by
default by 'make' (*note Variables Used by Implicit Rules: Implicit
Variables.).  The sub-'make' will define these for itself.

   If you want to export specific variables to a sub-'make', use the
'export' directive, like this:

     export VARIABLE ...

If you want to _prevent_ a variable from being exported, use the
'unexport' directive, like this:

     unexport VARIABLE ...

In both of these forms, the arguments to 'export' and 'unexport' are
expanded, and so could be variables or functions which expand to a (list
of) variable names to be (un)exported.

   As a convenience, you can define a variable and export it at the same
time by doing:

     export VARIABLE = value

has the same result as:

     VARIABLE = value
     export VARIABLE

and

     export VARIABLE := value

has the same result as:

     VARIABLE := value
     export VARIABLE

   Likewise,

     export VARIABLE += value

is just like:

     VARIABLE += value
     export VARIABLE

*Note Appending More Text to Variables: Appending.

   You may notice that the 'export' and 'unexport' directives work in
'make' in the same way they work in the shell, 'sh'.

   If you want all variables to be exported by default, you can use
'export' by itself:

     export

This tells 'make' that variables which are not explicitly mentioned in
an 'export' or 'unexport' directive should be exported.  Any variable
given in an 'unexport' directive will still _not_ be exported.  If you
use 'export' by itself to export variables by default, variables whose
names contain characters other than alphanumerics and underscores will
not be exported unless specifically mentioned in an 'export' directive.

   The behavior elicited by an 'export' directive by itself was the
default in older versions of GNU 'make'.  If your makefiles depend on
this behavior and you want to be compatible with old versions of 'make',
you can write a rule for the special target '.EXPORT_ALL_VARIABLES'
instead of using the 'export' directive.  This will be ignored by old
'make's, while the 'export' directive will cause a syntax error.

   Likewise, you can use 'unexport' by itself to tell 'make' _not_ to
export variables by default.  Since this is the default behavior, you
would only need to do this if 'export' had been used by itself earlier
(in an included makefile, perhaps).  You *cannot* use 'export' and
'unexport' by themselves to have variables exported for some recipes and
not for others.  The last 'export' or 'unexport' directive that appears
by itself determines the behavior for the entire run of 'make'.

   As a special feature, the variable 'MAKELEVEL' is changed when it is
passed down from level to level.  This variable's value is a string
which is the depth of the level as a decimal number.  The value is '0'
for the top-level 'make'; '1' for a sub-'make', '2' for a
sub-sub-'make', and so on.  The incrementation happens when 'make' sets
up the environment for a recipe.

   The main use of 'MAKELEVEL' is to test it in a conditional directive
(*note Conditional Parts of Makefiles: Conditionals.); this way you can
write a makefile that behaves one way if run recursively and another way
if run directly by you.

   You can use the variable 'MAKEFILES' to cause all sub-'make' commands
to use additional makefiles.  The value of 'MAKEFILES' is a
whitespace-separated list of file names.  This variable, if defined in
the outer-level makefile, is passed down through the environment; then
it serves as a list of extra makefiles for the sub-'make' to read before
the usual or specified ones.  *Note The Variable 'MAKEFILES': MAKEFILES
Variable.

File: make.info,  Node: Options/Recursion,  Next: -w Option,  Prev: Variables/Recursion,  Up: Recursion

5.7.3 Communicating Options to a Sub-'make'
-------------------------------------------

Flags such as '-s' and '-k' are passed automatically to the sub-'make'
through the variable 'MAKEFLAGS'.  This variable is set up automatically
by 'make' to contain the flag letters that 'make' received.  Thus, if
you do 'make -ks' then 'MAKEFLAGS' gets the value 'ks'.

   As a consequence, every sub-'make' gets a value for 'MAKEFLAGS' in
its environment.  In response, it takes the flags from that value and
processes them as if they had been given as arguments.  *Note Summary of
Options: Options Summary.

   Likewise variables defined on the command line are passed to the
sub-'make' through 'MAKEFLAGS'.  Words in the value of 'MAKEFLAGS' that
contain '=', 'make' treats as variable definitions just as if they
appeared on the command line.  *Note Overriding Variables: Overriding.

   The options '-C', '-f', '-o', and '-W' are not put into 'MAKEFLAGS';
these options are not passed down.

   The '-j' option is a special case (*note Parallel Execution:
Parallel.).  If you set it to some numeric value 'N' and your operating
system supports it (most any UNIX system will; others typically won't),
the parent 'make' and all the sub-'make's will communicate to ensure
that there are only 'N' jobs running at the same time between them all.
Note that any job that is marked recursive (*note Instead of Executing
Recipes: Instead of Execution.) doesn't count against the total jobs
(otherwise we could get 'N' sub-'make's running and have no slots left
over for any real work!)

   If your operating system doesn't support the above communication,
then no '-j' is added to 'MAKEFLAGS', so that sub-'make's run in
non-parallel mode.  If the '-j' option were passed down to sub-'make's
you would get many more jobs running in parallel than you asked for.  If
you give '-j' with no numeric argument, meaning to run as many jobs as
possible in parallel, this is passed down, since multiple infinities are
no more than one.

   If you do not want to pass the other flags down, you must change the
value of 'MAKEFLAGS', like this:

     subsystem:
             cd subdir && $(MAKE) MAKEFLAGS=

   The command line variable definitions really appear in the variable
'MAKEOVERRIDES', and 'MAKEFLAGS' contains a reference to this variable.
If you do want to pass flags down normally, but don't want to pass down
the command line variable definitions, you can reset 'MAKEOVERRIDES' to
empty, like this:

     MAKEOVERRIDES =

This is not usually useful to do.  However, some systems have a small
fixed limit on the size of the environment, and putting so much
information into the value of 'MAKEFLAGS' can exceed it.  If you see the
error message 'Arg list too long', this may be the problem.  (For strict
compliance with POSIX.2, changing 'MAKEOVERRIDES' does not affect
'MAKEFLAGS' if the special target '.POSIX' appears in the makefile.  You
probably do not care about this.)

   A similar variable 'MFLAGS' exists also, for historical
compatibility.  It has the same value as 'MAKEFLAGS' except that it does
not contain the command line variable definitions, and it always begins
with a hyphen unless it is empty ('MAKEFLAGS' begins with a hyphen only
when it begins with an option that has no single-letter version, such as
'--warn-undefined-variables').  'MFLAGS' was traditionally used
explicitly in the recursive 'make' command, like this:

     subsystem:
             cd subdir && $(MAKE) $(MFLAGS)

but now 'MAKEFLAGS' makes this usage redundant.  If you want your
makefiles to be compatible with old 'make' programs, use this technique;
it will work fine with more modern 'make' versions too.

   The 'MAKEFLAGS' variable can also be useful if you want to have
certain options, such as '-k' (*note Summary of Options: Options
Summary.), set each time you run 'make'.  You simply put a value for
'MAKEFLAGS' in your environment.  You can also set 'MAKEFLAGS' in a
makefile, to specify additional flags that should also be in effect for
that makefile.  (Note that you cannot use 'MFLAGS' this way.  That
variable is set only for compatibility; 'make' does not interpret a
value you set for it in any way.)

   When 'make' interprets the value of 'MAKEFLAGS' (either from the
environment or from a makefile), it first prepends a hyphen if the value
does not already begin with one.  Then it chops the value into words
separated by blanks, and parses these words as if they were options
given on the command line (except that '-C', '-f', '-h', '-o', '-W', and
their long-named versions are ignored; and there is no error for an
invalid option).

   If you do put 'MAKEFLAGS' in your environment, you should be sure not
to include any options that will drastically affect the actions of
'make' and undermine the purpose of makefiles and of 'make' itself.  For
instance, the '-t', '-n', and '-q' options, if put in one of these
variables, could have disastrous consequences and would certainly have
at least surprising and probably annoying effects.

   If you'd like to run other implementations of 'make' in addition to
GNU 'make', and hence do not want to add GNU 'make'-specific flags to
the 'MAKEFLAGS' variable, you can add them to the 'GNUMAKEFLAGS'
variable instead.  This variable is parsed just before 'MAKEFLAGS', in
the same way as 'MAKEFLAGS'.  When 'make' constructs 'MAKEFLAGS' to pass
to a recursive 'make' it will include all flags, even those taken from
'GNUMAKEFLAGS'.  As a result, after parsing 'GNUMAKEFLAGS' GNU 'make'
sets this variable to the empty string to avoid duplicating flags during
recursion.

   It's best to use 'GNUMAKEFLAGS' only with flags which won't
materially change the behavior of your makefiles.  If your makefiles
require GNU make anyway then simply use 'MAKEFLAGS'.  Flags such as
'--no-print-directory' or '--output-sync' may be appropriate for
'GNUMAKEFLAGS'.

File: make.info,  Node: -w Option,  Prev: Options/Recursion,  Up: Recursion

5.7.4 The '--print-directory' Option
------------------------------------

If you use several levels of recursive 'make' invocations, the '-w' or
'--print-directory' option can make the output a lot easier to
understand by showing each directory as 'make' starts processing it and
as 'make' finishes processing it.  For example, if 'make -w' is run in
the directory '/u/gnu/make', 'make' will print a line of the form:

     make: Entering directory `/u/gnu/make'.

before doing anything else, and a line of the form:

     make: Leaving directory `/u/gnu/make'.

when processing is completed.

   Normally, you do not need to specify this option because 'make' does
it for you: '-w' is turned on automatically when you use the '-C'
option, and in sub-'make's.  'make' will not automatically turn on '-w'
if you also use '-s', which says to be silent, or if you use
'--no-print-directory' to explicitly disable it.

File: make.info,  Node: Canned Recipes,  Next: Empty Recipes,  Prev: Recursion,  Up: Recipes

