13.1 Sharing Job Slots with GNU 'make'
======================================

GNU 'make' has the ability to run multiple recipes in parallel (*note
Parallel Execution: Parallel.) and to cap the total number of parallel
jobs even across recursive invocations of 'make' (*note Communicating
Options to a Sub-'make': Options/Recursion.).  Tools that 'make' invokes
which are also able to run multiple operations in parallel, either using
multiple threads or multiple processes, can be enhanced to participate
in GNU 'make''s job management facility to ensure that the total number
of active threads/processes running on the system does not exceed the
maximum number of slots provided to GNU 'make'.

   GNU 'make' uses a method called the "jobserver" to control the number
of active jobs across recursive invocations.  The actual implementation
of the jobserver varies across different operating systems, but some
fundamental aspects are always true.

   First, only command lines that 'make' understands to be recursive
invocations of 'make' (*note How the 'MAKE' Variable Works: MAKE
Variable.) will have access to the jobserver.  When writing makefiles
you must be sure to mark the command as recursive (most commonly by
prefixing the command line with the '+' indicator (*note Recursive Use
of 'make': Recursion.).

   Second, 'make' will provide information necessary for accessing the
jobserver through the environment to its children, in the 'MAKEFLAGS'
environment variable.  Tools which want to participate in the jobserver
protocol will need to parse this environment variable, as described in
subsequent sections.

   Third, every command 'make' starts has one implicit job slot reserved
for it before it starts.  Any tool which wants to participate in the
jobserver protocol should assume it can always run one job without
having to contact the jobserver at all.

   Finally, it's critical that tools that participate in the jobserver
protocol return the exact number of slots they obtained from the
jobserver back to the jobserver before they exit, even under error
conditions.  Remember that the implicit job slot should *not* be
returned to the jobserver!  Returning too few slots means that those
slots will be lost for the rest of the build process; returning too many
slots means that extra slots will be available.  The top-level 'make'
command will print an error message at the end of the build if it
detects an incorrect number of slots available in the jobserver.

   As an example, suppose you are implementing a linker which provides
for multithreaded operation.  You would like to enhance the linker so
that if it is invoked by GNU 'make' it can participate in the jobserver
protocol to control how many threads are used during link.  First you
will need to modify the linker to determine if the 'MAKEFLAGS'
environment variable is set.  Next you will need to parse the value of
that variable to determine if the jobserver is available, and how to
access it.  If it is available then you can access it to obtain job
slots controlling how much parallelism your tool can use.  Once done
your tool must return those job slots back to the jobserver.

* Menu:

* POSIX Jobserver::             Using the jobserver on POSIX systems.
* Windows Jobserver::           Using the jobserver on Windows systems.

File: make.info,  Node: POSIX Jobserver,  Next: Windows Jobserver,  Prev: Job Slots,  Up: Job Slots

13.1.1 POSIX Jobserver Interaction
----------------------------------

On POSIX systems the jobserver is implemented as a simple UNIX pipe.
The pipe will be pre-loaded with one single-character token for each
available job.  To obtain an extra slot you must read a single character
from the jobserver pipe; to release a slot you must write a single
character back into the jobserver pipe.

   To access the pipe you must parse the 'MAKEFLAGS' variable and look
for the argument string '--jobserver-auth=R,W' where 'R' and 'W' are
non-negative integers representing file descriptors: 'R' is the read
file descriptor and 'W' is the write file descriptor.

   It's important that when you release the job slot, you write back the
same character you read from the pipe for that slot.  Don't assume that
all tokens are the same character; different characters may have
different meanings to GNU 'make'.  The order is not important, since
'make' has no idea in what order jobs will complete anyway.

   There are various error conditions you must consider to ensure your
implementation is robust:

   * Usually you will have a command-line argument controlling the
     parallel operation of your tool.  Consider whether your tool should
     detect situations where both the jobserver and the command-line
     argument are specified, and how it should react.

   * If your tool determines that the '--jobserver-auth' option is
     available in 'MAKEFLAGS' but that the file descriptors specified
     are closed, this means that the calling 'make' process did not
     think that your tool was a recursive 'make' invocation (e.g., the
     command line was not prefixed with a '+' character).  You should
     notify your users of this situation.

   * Your tool should also examine the first word of the 'MAKEFLAGS'
     variable and look for the character 'n'.  If this character is
     present then 'make' was invoked with the '-n' option and your tool
     should stop without performing any operations.

   * Your tool should be sure to write back the tokens it read, even
     under error conditions.  This includes not only errors in your tool
     but also outside influences such as interrupts ('SIGINT'), etc.
     You may want to install signal handlers to manage this write-back.

File: make.info,  Node: Windows Jobserver,  Prev: POSIX Jobserver,  Up: Job Slots

13.1.2 Windows Jobserver Interaction
------------------------------------

On Windows systems the jobserver is implemented as a named semaphore.
The semaphore will be set with an initial count equal to the number of
available slots; to obtain a slot you must wait on the semaphore (with
or without a timeout).  To release a slot, release the semaphore.

   To access the semaphore you must parse the 'MAKEFLAGS' variable and
look for the argument string '--jobserver-auth=NAME' where 'NAME' is the
name of the named semaphore.  Use this name with 'OpenSemaphore' to
create a handle to the semaphore.

   There are various error conditions you must consider to ensure your
implementation is robust:

   * Usually you will have a command-line argument controlling the
     parallel operation of your tool.  Consider whether your tool should
     detect situations where both the jobserver and the command-line
     argument are specified, and how it should react.

   * Your tool should be sure to release the semaphore for the tokens it
     read, even under error conditions.  This includes not only errors
     in your tool but also outside influences such as interrupts
     ('SIGINT'), etc.  You may want to install signal handlers to manage
     this write-back.

File: make.info,  Node: Terminal Output,  Prev: Job Slots,  Up: Integrating make

