BUG FIXES						*bug-fixes-7*

When using PostScript printing on MS-DOS the default 'printexpr' used "lpr"
instead of "copy".  When 'printdevice' was empty the copy command did not
work.  Use "LPT1" then.

The GTK font dialog uses a font size zero when the font name doesn't include a
size.  Use a default size of 10.

This example in the documentation didn't work: >
    :e `=foo . ".c"`
Skip over the expression in `=expr` when looking for comments, |, % and #.

When ":helpgrep" doesn't find anything there is no error message.

"L" and "H" did not take closed folds into account.

Win32: The "-P title" argument stopped at the first title that matched, even
when it doesn't support MDI.

Mac GUI: CTRL-^ and CTRL-@ did not work.

"2daw" on "word." at the end of a line didn't include the preceding white
space.

Win32: Using FindExecutable() doesn't work to find a program.  Use
SearchPath() instead.  For executable() use $PATHEXT when the program searched
for doesn't have an extension.

When 'virtualedit' is set, moving the cursor up after appending a character
may move it to a different column.  Was caused by auto-formatting moving the
cursor and not putting it back where it was.

When indent was added automatically and then moving the cursor, the indent was
not deleted (like when pressing ESC).  The "I" flag in 'cpoptions' can be used
to make it work the old way.

When opening a command-line window, 'textwidth' gets set to 78 by the Vim
filetype plugin.  Reset 'textwidth' to 0 to avoid lines are broken.

After using cursor(line, col) moving up/down doesn't keep the same column.

Win32: Borland C before 5.5 requires using ".u." for LowPart and HighPart
fields. (Walter Briscoe)

On Sinix SYS_NMLN isn't always defined.  Define it ourselves. (Cristiano De
Michele)

Printing with PostScript may keep the printer waiting for more.  Append a
CTRL-D to the printer output. (Mike Williams)

When converting a string with a hex or octal number the leading '-' was
ignored.  ":echo '-05' + 0" resulted in 5 instead of -5.

Using "@:" to repeat a command line didn't work when it contains control
characters.  Also remove "'<,'>" when in Visual mode to avoid that it appears
twice.

When using file completion for a user command, it would not expand environment
variables like for a regular command with a file argument.

'cindent': When the argument of a #define looks like a C++ class the next line
is indented too much.

When 'comments' includes multi-byte characters inserting the middle part and
alignment may go wrong.  'cindent' also suffers from this for right-aligned
items.

Win32: when 'encoding' is set to "utf-8" getenv() still returns strings in the
active codepage.  Convert to utf-8.  Also for $HOME.

The default for 'helplang' was "zh" for both "zh_cn" and "zh_tw".  Now use
"cn" or "tw" as intended.

When 'bin' is set and 'eol' is not set then line2byte() added the line break
after the last line while it's not there.

Using foldlevel() in a WinEnter autocommand may not work.  Noticed when
resizing the GUI shell upon startup.

Python: Using buffer.append(f.readlines()) didn't work.  Allow appending a
string with a trailing newline.  The newline is ignored.

When using the ":saveas f2" command for buffer "f1", the Buffers menu would
contain "f2" twice, one of them leading to "f1".  Also trigger the BufFilePre
and BufFilePost events for the alternate buffer that gets the old name.

strridx() did not work well when the needle is empty. (Ciaran McCreesh)

GTK: Avoid a potential hang in gui_mch_wait_for_chars() when input arrives
just before it is invoked

VMS: Occasionally CR characters were inserted in the file.  Expansion of
environment variables was not correct. (Zoltan Arpadffy)

UTF-8: When 'delcombine' is set "dw" only deleted the last combining character
from the first character of the word.

When using ":sball" in an autocommand only the filetype in one buffer was
detected.  Reset did_filetype in enter_buffer().

When using ":argdo" and the window already was at the first argument index,
but not actually editing it, the current buffer would be used instead.

When ":next dir/*" includes many matches, adding the names to the argument
list may take an awful lot of time and can't be interrupted.  Allow
interrupting this.

When editing a file that was already loaded in a buffer, modelines were not
used.  Now window-local options in the modeline are set.  Buffer-local options
and global options remain unmodified.

Win32: When 'encoding' is set to "utf-8" in the vimrc file, files from the
command line with non-ASCII characters are not used correctly.  Recode the
file names when 'encoding' is set, using the Unicode command line.

Win32 console: When the default for 'encoding' ends up to be "latin1", the
default value of 'isprint' was wrong.

When an error message is given while waiting for a character (e.g., when an
xterm reports the number of colors), the hit-enter prompt overwrote the last
line.  Don't reset msg_didout in normal_cmd() for K_IGNORE.

Mac GUI: Shift-Tab didn't work.

When defining tooltip text, don't translate terminal codes, since it's not
going to be used like a command.

GTK 2: Check the tooltip text for valid utf-8 characters to avoid getting a
GTK error.  Invalid characters may appear when 'encoding' is changed.

GTK 2: Add a safety check for invalid utf-8 sequences, they can crash pango.

Win32: When 'encoding' is changed while starting up, use the Unicode command
line to convert the file arguments to 'encoding'.  Both for the GUI and the
console version.

Win32 GUI: latin9 text (iso-8859-15) was not displayed correctly, because
there is no codepage for latin9.  Do our own conversion from latin9 to UCS2.

When two versions of GTK+ 2 are installed it was possible to use the header
files from one and the library from the other.  Use GTK_LIBDIR to put the
directory for the library early in the link flags.

With the GUI find/replace dialog a replace only worked if the pattern was
literal text.  Now it works for any pattern.

When 'equalalways' is set and 'eadirection' is "hor", ":quit" would still
cause equalizing window heights in the vertical direction.

When ":emenu" is used in a startup script the command was put in the typeahead
buffer, causing a prompt for the crypt key to be messed up.

Mac OS/X: The default for 'isprint' included characters 128-160, causes
problems for Terminal.app.

When a syntax item with "containedin" is used, it may match in the start or
end of a region with a matchgroup, while this doesn't happen for a "contains"
argument.

When a transparent syntax items matches in another item where the highlighting
has already stopped (because of a he= argument), the highlighting would come
back.

When cscope is used to set the quickfix error list, it didn't get set if there
was only one match. (Sergey Khorev)

When 'confirm' is set and using ":bdel" in a modified buffer, then selecting
"cancel", would still give an error message.

The PopUp menu items that started Visual mode didn't work when not in Normal
mode.  Switching between selecting a word and a line was not possible.

Win32: The keypad decimal point always resulted in a '.', while on some
keyboards it's a ','.  Use MapVirtualKey(VK_DECIMAL, 2).

Removed unused function DisplayCompStringOpaque() from gui_w32.c

In Visual mode there is not always an indication whether the line break is
selected or not.  Highlight the character after the line when the line break
is included, e.g., after "v$o".

GTK: The <F10> key can't be mapped, it selects the menu.  Disable that with a
GTK setting and do select the menu when <F10> isn't mapped. (David Necas)

After "Y" '[ and '] were not at start/end of the yanked text.

When a telnet connection is dropped Vim preserves files and exits.  While
doing that a SIGHUP may arrive and disturb us, thus ignore it. (Scott
Anderson)  Also postpone SIGHUP, SIGQUIT and SIGTERM until it's safe to
handle.  Added handle_signal().

When completing a file name on the command line backslashes are required for
white space.  Was only done for a space, not for a Tab.

When configure could not find a terminal library, compiling continued for a
long time before reporting the problem.  Added a configure check for tgetent()
being found in a library.

When the cursor is on the first char of the last line a ":g/pat/s///" command
may cause the cursor to be displayed below the text.

Win32: Editing a file with non-ASCII characters doesn't work when 'encoding'
is "utf-8".  use _wfullpath() instead of _fullpath(). (Yu-sung Moon)

When recovering the 'fileformat' and 'fileencoding' were taken from the
original file instead of from the swapfile.  When the file didn't exist, was
empty or the option was changed (e.g., with ":e ++fenc=cp123 file") it could
be wrong.  Now store 'fileformat' and 'fileencoding' in the swapfile and use
the values when recovering.

":bufdo g/something/p" overwrites each last printed text line with the file
message for the next buffer.  Temporarily clear 'shortmess' to avoid that.

Win32: Cannot edit a file starting with # with --remote.  Do escape % and #
when building the ":drop" command.

A comment or | just after an expression-backtick argument was not recognized.
E.g. in :e `="foo"`"comment.

"(" does not stop at an empty sentence (single dot and white space) while ")"
does.  Also breaks "das" on that dot.

When doing "yy" with the cursor on a TAB the ruler could be wrong and "k"
moved the cursor to another column.

When 'commentstring' is '"%s' and there is a double quote in the line a double
quote before the fold marker isn't removed in the text displayed for a  closed
fold.

In Visual mode, when 'bin' and 'eol' set, g CTRL-G counted the last line
break, resulting in "selected 202 of 201 bytes".

Motif: fonts were not used for dialog components. (Marcin Dalecki)

Motif: After using a toolbar button the keyboard focus would be on the toolbar
(Lesstif problem). (Marcin Dalecki)

When using "y<C-V>`x" where mark x is in the first column, the last line was
not included.

Not all test scripts work properly on MS-Windows when checked out from CVS.
Use a Vim command to fix all fileformats to dos before executing the tests.

When using ":new" and the file fits in the window, lines could still be above
the window.  Now remove empty lines instead of keeping the relative position.

Cmdline completion didn't work after ":let var1 var<Tab>".

When using ":startinsert" or ":startreplace" when already in Insert mode
(possible when using CTRL-R =), pressing Esc would directly restart Insert
mode. (Peter Winters)

"2daw" didn't work at end of file if the last word is a single character.

Completion for ":next a'<Tab>" put a backslash before single quote, but it was
not removed when editing a file.  Now halve backslashes in save_patterns().
Also fix expanding a file name with the shell that contains "\'".

When doing "1,6d|put" only "fewer lines" was reported.  Now a following "more
lines" overwrites the message.

Configure could not handle "-Dfoo=long\ long" in the TCL config output.

When searching backwards, using a pattern that matches a newline and uses \zs
after that, didn't find a match.  Could also get a hang or end up in the right
column in the wrong line.

When $LANG is "sl" for slovenian, the slovak menu was used, since "slovak"
starts with "sl".

When 'paste' is set in the GUI the Paste toolbar button doesn't work.  Clear
'paste' when starting the GUI.

A message about a wrong viminfo line included the trailing NL.

When 'paste' is set in the GUI the toolbar button doesn't work in Insert mode.
Use ":exe" in menu.vim to avoid duplicating the commands, instead of using a
mapping.

Treat "mlterm" as an xterm-like terminal. (Seiichi Sato)

":z.4" and ":z=4" didn't work Vi compatible.

When sourcing a file, editing it and sourcing it again, it could appear twice
in ":scriptnames" and get a new <SID>, because the inode has changed.

When $SHELL is set but empty the 'shell' option would be empty.  Don't use an
empty $SHELL value.

A command "w! file" in .vimrc or $EXINIT didn't work.  Now it writes an empty
file.

When a CTRL-F command at the end of the file failed, the cursor was still
moved to the start of the line.  Now it remains where it is.

When using ":s" or "&" to repeat the last substitute and "$" was used to put
the cursor in the last column, put the cursor in the last column again.  This
is Vi compatible.

Vim is not fully POSIX compliant but sticks with traditional Vi behavior.
Added a few flags in 'cpoptions' to behave the POSIX way when wanted.  The
$VIM_POSIX environment variable is checked to set the default.

Appending to a register didn't insert a line break like Vi.  Added the '>'
flag to 'cpoptions' for this.

Using "I" in a line with only blanks appended to the line.  This is not Vi
compatible.  Added the 'H' flag in 'cpoptions' for this.

When joining multiple lines the cursor would be at the last joint, but Vi
leaves it at the position where "J" would put it.  Added the 'q' flag in
'cpoptions' for this.

Autoindent didn't work for ":insert" and ":append".

Using ":append" in an empty buffer kept the dummy line.  Now it's deleted to
be Vi compatible.

When reading commands from a file and stdout goes to a terminal, would still
request the xterm version.  Vim can't read it, thus the output went to the
shell and caused trouble there.

When redirecting to a register with an invalid name the redirection would
still be done (after an error message).  Now reset "redir_reg". (Yegappan
Lakshmanan)

It was not possible to use a NL after a backslash in Ex mode.  This is
sometimes used to feed multiple lines to a shell command.

When 'cmdheight' is set to 2 in .vimrc and the GUI uses the number of lines
from the terminal we actually get 3 lines for the cmdline in gvim.

When setting $HOME allocated memory would leak.

Win32: bold characters may sometimes write in another character cell.  Use
unicodepdy[] as for UTF-8. (Taro Muraoka)

":w fname" didn't work for files with 'buftype' set to "nofile".

The method used to locate user commands for completion differed from when they
are executed.  Ambiguous command names were not completed properly.

Incremental search may cause a crash when there is a custom statusline that
indirectly invokes ":normal".

Diff mode failed when $DIFF_OPTIONS was set in the environment.  Unset it
before invoking "diff".

Completion didn't work after ":argdo", ":windo" and ":bufdo".  Also for ":set
&l:opt" and ":set &g:opt". (Peter Winters)

When setting 'ttymouse' to "dec" in an xterm that supports the DEC mouse
locator it doesn't work.  Now switch off the mouse before selecting another
mouse model.

When the CursorHold event is triggered and the commands peek for typed
characters the typeahead buffer may be messed up, e.g., when a mouse-up event
is received.  Avoid invoking the autocommands from the function waiting for a
character, let it put K_CURSORHOLD in the input buffer.

Removed the "COUNT" flag from ":argadd", to avoid ":argadd 1*" to be used like
":1argadd *".  Same for ":argdelete" and ":argedit".

Avoid that $LANG is used for the menus when LC_MESSAGES is "en_US".

Added backslashes before dashes in the vim.1 manual page to make them appear
as real dashes. (Pierre Habouzit)

Where "gq" left the cursor depended on the value of 'formatprg'.  Now "gq"
always leaves the cursor at the last line of the formatted text.

When editing a compressed file, such as "changelog.Debian.gz" file, filetype
detection may try to check the contents of the file while it's still
compressed.  Skip setting 'filetype' for compressed files until they have been
decompressed.  Required for patterns that end in a "*".

Starting with an argument "+cmd" or "-S script" causes the cursor to be moved
to the first line.  That breaks a BufReadPost autocommand that uses g`".
Don't move the cursor if it's somewhere past the first line.

"gg=G" while 'modifiable' is off was uninterruptible.

When 'encoding' is "sjis" inserting CTRL-V u d800 a few times causes a crash.
Don't insert a DBCS character with a NUL second byte.

In Insert mode CTRL-O <Home> didn't move the cursor.  Made "ins_at_eol" global
and reset it in nv_home().

Wildcard expansion failed: ":w /tmp/$$.`echo test`".  Don't put quotes around
spaces inside backticks.

After this sequence of commands: Y V p gv: the wrong line is selected.  Now
let "gv" select the text that was put, since the original text is deleted.
This should be the most useful thing to do.

":sleep 100u" sleeps for 100 seconds, not 100 usec as one might expect.  Give
an error message when the argument isn't recognized.

In gui_mch_draw_string() in gui_w32.c "unibuflen" wasn't static, resulting in
reallocating the buffer every time. (Alexei Alexandrov)

When using a Python "atexit" function it was not invoked when Vim exits.  Now
call Py_Finalize() for that. (Ugo Di Girolamo)
This breaks the thread stuff though, fixed by Ugo.

GTK GUI: using a .vimrc with "set cmdheight=2 lines=43" and ":split" right
after startup, the window layout is messed up. (Michael Schaap)  Added
win_new_shellsize() call in gui_init() to fix the topframe size.

Trick to get ...MOUSE_NM not used when there are vertical splits.  Now pass
column -1 for the left most window and add MOUSE_COLOFF for others.  Limits
mouse column to 10000.

searchpair() may hang when the end pattern has "\zs" at the end.  Check that
we find the same position again and advance one character.

When in diff mode and making a change that causes the "changed" highlighting
to disappear or reappear, it was still highlighted in another window.

When a ":next" command fails because the user selects "Abort" at the ATTENTION
prompt the argument index was advanced anyway.

When "~" is in 'iskeyword' the "gd" doesn't work, it's used for the previous
substitute pattern.  Put "\V" in the pattern to avoid that.

Use of sprintf() sometimes didn't check properly for buffer overflow.  Also
when using smsg().  Included code for snprintf() to avoid having to do size
checks where invoking them

":help \=<Tab>" didn't find "sub-replace-\=".  Wild menu for help tags didn't
show backslashes.  ":he :s\=" didn't work.

When reading an errorfile "~/" in a file name was not expanded.

GTK GUI: When adding a scrollbar (e.g. when using ":vsplit") in a script or
removing it the window size may change.  GTK sends us resize events when we
change the window size ourselves, but they may come at an unexpected moment.
Peek for a character to get any window resize events and fix 'columns' and
'lines' to undo this.

When using the GTK plug mechanism, resizing and focus was not working
properly. (Neil Bird)

After deleting files from the argument list a session file generated with
":mksession" may contain invalid ":next" commands.

When 'shortmess' is empty and 'keymap' set to accents, in Insert mode CTRL-N
may cause the hit-enter prompt.  Typing 'a then didn't result in the accented
character.  Put the character typed at the prompt back in the typeahead buffer
so that mapping is done in the right mode.

setbufvar() and setwinvar() did not give error messages.

It was possible to set a variable with an illegal name, e.g. with setbufvar().
It was possible to define a function with illegal name, e.t. ":func F{-1}()"

CTRL-W F and "gf" didn't use the same method to get the file name.

When reporting a conversion error the line number of the last error could be
given.  Now report the first encountered error.

When using ":e ++enc=name file" and iconv() was used for conversion an error
caused a fall-back to no conversion.  Now replace a character with '?' and
continue.

When opening a new buffer the local value of 'bomb' was not initialized from
the global value.

Win32: When using the "Edit with Vim" entry the file name was limited to about
200 characters.

When using command line completion for ":e *foo" and the file "+foo" exists
the resulting command ":e +foo" doesn't work.  Now insert a backslash: ":e
\+foo".

When the translation of "-- More --" was not 10 characters long the following
message would be in the wrong position.

At the more-prompt the last character in the last line wasn't drawn.

When deleting non-existing text while 'virtualedit' is set the '[ and '] marks
were not set.

Win32: Could not use "**/" in 'path', it had to be "**\".

The search pattern "\n" did not match at the end of the last line.

Searching for a pattern backwards, starting on the NUL at the end of the line
and 'encoding' is "utf-8" would match the pattern just before it incorrectly.
Affected searchpair('/\*', '', '\*/').

For the Find/Replace dialog it was possible that not finding the text resulted
in an error message while redrawing, which cleared the syntax highlighting
while it was being used, resulting in a crash.  Now don't clear syntax
highlighting, disable it with b_syn_error.

Win32: Combining UTF-8 characters were drawn on the previous character.
Could be noticed with a Thai font.

Output of ":function" could leave some of the typed text behind. (Yegappan
Lakshmanan)

When the command line history has only a few lines the command line window
would be opened with these lines above the first window line.

When using a command line window for search strings ":qa" would result in
searching for "qa" instead of quitting all windows.

GUI: When scrolling with the scrollbar and there is a line that doesn't fit
redrawing may fail.  Make sure w_skipcol is valid before redrawing.

Limit the values of 'columns' and 'lines' to avoid an overflow in Rows *
Columns.  Fixed bad effects when running out of memory (command line would be
reversed, ":qa!" resulted in ":!aq").

Motif: "gvim -iconic" opened the window anyway.  (David Harrison)

There is a tiny chance that a symlink gets created between checking for an
existing file and creating a file.  Use the O_NOFOLLOW for open() if it's
available.

In an empty line "ix<CTRL-O>0" moved the cursor to after the line instead of
sticking to the first column.

When using ":wq" and a BufWriteCmd autocmd uses inputsecret() the text was
echoed anyway.  Set terminal to raw mode in getcmdline().

Unix: ":w a;b~c" caused an error in expanding wildcards.

When appending to a file with ":w >>fname" in a buffer without a name, causing
the buffer to use "fname", the modified flag was reset.

When appending to the current file the "not edited" flag would be reset.
":w" would overwrite the file accidentally.

Unix: When filtering text with an external command Vim would still read input,
causing text typed for the command (e.g., a password) to be eaten and echoed.
Don't read input when the terminal is in cooked mode.

The Cygwin version of xxd used CR/LF line separators. (Corinna Vinschen)

Unix: When filtering text through a shell command some resulting text may be
dropped.  Now after detecting that the child has exited try reading some more
of its output.

When inside input(), using "CTRL-R =" and the expression throws an exception
the command line was not abandoned but it wasn't used either.  Now abandon
typing the command line.

'delcombine' was also used in Visual and Select mode and for commands like
"cl".  That was illogical and has been disabled.

When recording while a CursorHold autocommand was defined special keys would
appear in the register.  Now the CursorHold event is not triggered while
recording.

Unix: the src/configure script used ${srcdir-.}, not all shells understand
that.  Use ${srcdir:-.} instead.

When editing file "a" which is a symlink to file "b" that doesn't exist,
writing file "a" to create "b" and then ":split b" resulted in two buffers on
the same file with two different swapfile names.  Now set the inode in the
buffer when creating a new file.

When 'esckeys' is not set don't send the xterm code to request the version
string, because it may cause trouble in Insert mode.

When evaluating an expression for CTRL-R = on the command line it was possible
to call a function that opens a new window, resulting in errors for
incremental search, and many other nasty things were possible.  Now use the
|textlock| to disallow changing the buffer or jumping to another window
to protect from unexpected behavior.  Same for CTRL-\ e.

"d(" deleted the character under the cursor, while the documentation specified
an exclusive motion.  Vi also doesn't delete the character under the cursor.

Shift-Insert in Insert mode could put the cursor before the last character
when it just fits in the window.  In coladvance() don't stop at the window
edge when filling with spaces and when in Insert mode.  In mswin.vim avoid
getting a beep from the "l" command.

Win32 GUI: When Alt-F4 is used to close the window and Cancel is selected in
the dialog then Vim would insert <M-F4> in the text.  Now it's ignored.

When ":silent! {cmd}" caused the swap file dialog, which isn't displayed,
there would still be a hit-enter prompt.

Requesting the termresponse (|t_RV|) early may cause problems with "-c"
arguments that invoke an external command or even "-c quit".  Postpone it
until after executing "-c" arguments.

When typing in Insert mode so that a new line is started, using CTRL-G u to
break undo and start a new change, then joining the lines with <BS> caused
undo info to be missing.  Now reset the insertion start point.

Syntax HL: When a region start match has a matchgroup and an offset that
happens to be after the end of the line then it continued in the next line and
stopped at the region end match, making the region continue after that.
Now check for the column being past the end of the line in syn_add_end_off().

When changing a file, setting 'swapfile' off and then on again, making another
change and killing Vim, then some blocks may be missing from the swapfile.
When 'swapfile' is switched back on mark all blocks in the swapfile as dirty.
Added mf_set_dirty().

Expanding wildcards in a command like ":e aap;<>!" didn't work.  Put
backslashes before characters that are special to the shell. (Adri Verhoef)

A CursorHold autocommand would cause a message to be cleared.  Don't show the
special key for the event for 'showcmd'.

When expanding a file name for a shell command, as in "!cmd foo<Tab>" or ":r
!cmd foo<Tab>" also escape characters that are special for the shell:
"!;&()<>".

When the name of the buffer was set by a ":r fname" command |cpo-f| no
autocommands were triggered to notify about the change in the buffer list.

In the quickfix buffer 'bufhidden' was set to "delete", which caused closing
the quickfix window to leave an unlisted "No Name" buffer behind every time.

Win32: when using two screens of different size, setting 'lines' to a large
value didn't fill the whole screen. (SungHyun Nam)

Win32 installer: The generated _vimrc contained an absolute path to diff.exe.
After upgrading it becomes invalid.  Now use $VIMRUNTIME instead.

The command line was cleared to often when 'showmode' was set and ":silent
normal vy" was used.  Don't clear the command line unless the mode was
actually displayed.  Added the "mode_displayed" variable.

The "load session" toolbar item could not handle a space or other special
characters in v:this_session.

":set sta ts=8 sw=4 sts=2" deleted 4 spaces halfway a line instead of 2.

In a multi-byte file the foldmarker could be recognized in the trail byte.
(Taro Muraoka)

Pasting with CTRL-V and menu didn't work properly when some commands are
mapped.  Use ":normal!" instead of ":normal". (Tony Apuzzo)

Crashed when expanding a file name argument in backticks.

In some situations the menu and scrollbar didn't work, when the value contains
a CSI byte. (Yukihiro Nakadaira)

GTK GUI: When drawing the balloon focus changes and we might get a key release
event that removed the balloon again.  Ignore the key release event.

'titleold' was included in ":mkexrc" and ":mksession" files.

":set background&" didn't use the same logic as was used when starting up.

When "umask" is set such that nothing is writable then the viminfo file would
be written without write permission. (Julian Bridle)

Motif: In diff mode dragging one scrollbar didn't update the scrollbar of the
other diff'ed window.

When editing in an xterm with a different number of colors than expected the
screen would be cleared and redrawn, causing the message about the edited file
to be cleared.  Now set "keep_msg" to redraw the last message.

For a color terminal: When the Normal HL uses bold, possibly to make the color
lighter, and another HL group specifies a color it might become light as well.
Now reset bold if a HL group doesn't specify bold itself.

When using 256 color xterm the color 255 would show up as color 0.  Use a
short instead of a char to store the color number.

ml_get errors when searching for "\n\zs" in an empty file.

When selecting a block and using "$" to select until the end of every line and
not highlighting the character under the cursor the first character of the
block could be unhighlighted.

When counting words for the Visual block area and using "$" to select until
the end of every line only up to the length of the last line was counted.

"dip" in trailing empty lines left one empty line behind.

The script ID was only remembered globally for each option. When a buffer- or
window-local option was set the same "last set" location was changed for all
buffers and windows.  Now remember the script ID for each local option
separately.

GUI: The "Replace All" button didn't handle backslashes in the replacement in
the same way as "Replace".  Escape backslashes so that they are taken
literally.

When using Select mode from Insert mode and typing a key, causing lines to be
deleted and a message displayed, delayed the effect of inserting the key.
Now overwrite the message without delay.

When 'whichwrap' includes "l" then "dl" and "yl" on a single letter line
worked differently.  Now recognize all operators when using "l" at the end of
a line.

GTK GUI: when the font selector returned a font name with a comma in it then
it would be handled like two font names.  Now put a backslash before the
comma.

MS-DOS, Win32: When 'encoding' defaults to "latin1" then the value for
'iskeyword' was still for CPxxx.  And when 'nocompatible' was set 'isprint'
would also be the wrong value.

When a command was defined not to take arguments and no '|' no warning message
would be given for using a '|'.  Also with ":loadkeymap".

Motif: When using a fontset and 'encoding' is "utf-8" and sizeof(wchar_t) !=
sizeof(XChar2b) then display was wrong. (Yukihiro Nakadaira)

":all" always set the current window to the first window, even when it
contains a buffer that is not in the argument list (can't be closed because it
is modified).  Now go to the window that has the first item of the argument
list.

GUI: To avoid left-over pixels from bold text all characters after a character
with special attributes were redrawn.  Now only do this for characters that
actually are bold.  Speeds up displaying considerably.

When only highlighting changes and the text is scrolled at the same time
everything is redrawn instead of using a scroll and updating the changed text.
E.g., when using ":match" to highlight a paren that the cursor landed on.
Added SOME_VALID: Redraw the whole window but also try to scroll to minimize
redrawing.

Win32: When using Korean IME making it active didn't work properly. (Moon,
Yu-sung, 2005 March 21)

Ruby interface: when inserting/deleting lines display wasn't updated. (Ryan
Paul)

--- fixes since Vim 7.0b ---

Getting the GCC version in configure didn't work with Solaris sed.  First
strip any "darwin." and then get the version number.

The "autoload" directory was missing from the self-installing executable for
MS-Windows.

The MS-Windows install program would find "vimtutor.bat" in the install
directory.  After changing to "c:" also change to "\" to avoid looking in the
install directory.

To make the 16 bit DOS version compile exclude not used highlight
initializations and build a tiny instead of small version.

finddir() and findfile() accept a negative count and return a List then.

The Python indent file contained a few debugging statements, removed.

Expanding {} for a function name, resulting in a name starting with "s:" was
not handled correctly.

Spelling: renamed COMPOUNDMAX to COMPOUNDWORDMAX.  Added several items to be
able to handle the new Hungarian dictionary.

Mac: Default to building for the current platform only, that is much faster
than building a universal binary.  Also, using Perl/Python/etc. only works for
the current platform.

The time on undo messages disappeared for someone.  Using %T for strftime()
apparently doesn't work everywhere.  Use %H:%M:%S instead.

Typing BS at the "z=" prompt removed the prompt.

--- fixes and changes since Vim 7.0c ---

When jumping to another tab page the Vim window size was always set, even when
nothing in the layout changed.

Win32 GUI tab pages line wasn't always enabled.  Do a proper check for the
compiler version.

Win32: When switching between tab pages the Vim window was moved when part of
it was outside of the screen.  Now only do that in the direction of a size
change.

Win32: added menu to GUI tab pages line. (Yegappan Lakshmanan)

Mac: Added document icons. (Benji Fisher)

Insert mode completion: Using Enter to accept the current match causes
confusion.  Use CTRL-Y instead.  Also, use CTRL-E to go back to the typed
text.

GUI: When there are left and right scrollbars, ":tabedit" kept them instead of
using the one that isn't needed.

Using "gP" to replace al the text could leave the cursor below the last line,
causing ml_get errors.

When 'cursorline' is set don't use the highlighting when Visual mode is
active, otherwise it's difficult to see the selected area.

The matchparen plugin restricts the search to 100 lines, to avoid a long delay
when there are closed folds.

Sometimes using CTRL-X s to list spelling suggestions used text from another
line.

Win32: Set the default for 'isprint' back to the wrong default "@,~-255",
because many people use Windows-1252 while 'encoding' is "latin1".

GTK: Added a workaround for gvim crashing when used over an untrusted ssh
link, caused by GTK doing something nasty. (Ed Catmur)

Win32: The font used for the tab page labels is too big.  Use the system menu
font. (George Reilly)

Win32: Adjusting the window position and size to keep it on the screen didn't
work properly when the taskbar is on the left or top of the screen.

The installman.sh and installml.sh scripts use ${10}, that didn't work with
old shells.  And use "test -f" instead of "test -e".

Win32: When 'encoding' was set in the vimrc then a directory argument for diff
mode didn't work.

GUI: at the inputlist() prompt the cursorshape was adjusted as if the windows
were still at their old position.

The parenmatch plugin didn't remember the highlighting per window.

Using ":bd" for a buffer that's the current window in another tab page caused
a crash.

For a new tab page the 'scroll' option wasn't set to a good default.

Using an end offset for a search "/pat/e" didn't work properly for multi-byte
text. (Yukihiro Nakadaira)

":s/\n/,/" doubled the text when used on the last line.

When "search" is in 'foldopen' "[s" and "]s" now open folds.

When using a numbered function "dict" can be omitted, but "self" didn't work
then.  Always add FC_DICT to the function flags when it's part of a
dictionary.

When "--remote-tab" executes locally it left an empty tab page.

"gvim -u NONE", ":set cursorcolumn", "C" in the second line didn't update
text.  Do update further lines even though the "$" is displayed.

VMS: Support GTK better, also enable +clientserver. (Zoltan Arpadffy)

When highlighting of statusline or tabline is changed there was no redraw to
show the effect.

Mac: Added "CFBundleIdentifier" to infplist.xml.

Added tabpage-local variables t:var.

Win32: Added double-click in tab pages line creates new tab. (Yegappan
Lakshmanan)

Motif: Added GUI tab pages line. (Yegappan Lakshmanan)

Fixed crash when 'lines' was set to 1000 in a modeline.

When init_spellfile() finds a writable directory in 'runtimepath' but it
doesn't contain a "spell" directory, create one.

Win32: executable() also finds "xxd" in the directory where Vim was started,
but "!xxd" doesn't work.  Append the Vim starting directory to $PATH.

The tab page labels are shortened, directory names are reduced to a single
letter by default.  Added the pathshorten() function to allow a user to do the
same.

":saveas" now resets 'readonly' if the file was successfully written.

Set $MYVIMRC file to the first found .vimrc file.
Set $MYGVIMRC file to the first found .gvimrc file.
Added menu item "Startup Settings" that edits the $MYVIMRC file

Added matcharg().

Error message E745 appeared twice.  Renamed one to E786.

Fixed crash when using "au BufRead * Sexplore" and doing ":help".  Was wiping
out a buffer that's still in a window.

":hardcopy" resulted in an error message when 'encoding' is "utf-8" and
'printencoding' is empty.  Now it assumes latin1. (Mike Williams)

The check for the toolbar feature for Motif, depending on certain included
files, wasn't detailed enough, causing building to fail in gui_xmebw.c.

Using CTRL-E in Insert mode completion after CTRL-P inserted the first match
instead of the original text.

When displaying a UTF-8 character with a zero lower byte Vim might think the
previous character is double-wide.

The "nbsp" item of 'listchars' didn't work when 'encoding' was utf-8.

Motif: when Xm/xpm.h is missing gui_xmebw.c would not compile.
HAVE_XM_UNHIGHLIGHTT_H was missing a T.

Mac: Moved the .icns files into src/os_mac_rsrc, so that they can all be
copied at once.  Adjusted the Info.plist file for three icons.

When Visual mode is active while switching to another tabpage could get ml_get
errors.

When 'list' is set, 'nowrap' the $ in the first column caused 'cursorcolumn'
to move to the right.

When a line wraps, 'cursorcolumn' was never displayed past the end of the
line.

'autochdir' was only available when compiled with NetBeans and GUI.  Now it's
a separate feature, also available in the "big" version.

Added CTRL-W gf: open file under cursor in new tab page.

When using the menu in the tab pages line, "New Tab" opens the new tab before
where the click was.  Beyond the labels the new tab appears at the end instead
of after the current tab page.

Inside a mapping with an expression getchar() could not be used.

When vgetc is used recursively vgetc_busy protects it from being used
recursively.  But after a ":normal" command the protection was reset.

":s/a/b/n" didn't work when 'modifiable' was off.

When $VIMRUNTIME includes a multi-byte character then rgb.txt could not be
found. (Yukihiro Nakadaira)

":mkspell" didn't work correctly for non-ASCII affix flags when conversion is
needed on the spell file.

glob('/dir/\$ABC/*') didn't work.

When using several tab pages and changing 'cmdheight' the display could become
messed up.  Now store the value of 'cmdheight' separately for each tab page.

The user of the Enter key while the popup menu is visible was still confusing.
Now use Enter to select the match after using a cursor key.

Added "usetab" to 'switchbuf'.


--- fixes and changes since Vim 7.0d ---

Added CTRL-W T: move a window to a new tab page.

Using CTRL-X s in Insert mode to complete spelling suggestions and using BS
deleted characters before the bad word.

A few small fixes for the VMS makefile. (Zoltan Arpadffy)

With a window of 91 lines 45 cols, ":vsp" scrolled the window.  Copy w_wrow
when splitting a window and skip setting the height when it's already at the
right value.

Using <silent> in a mapping with a shell command and the GUI caused redraw
to use wrong attributes.

Win32: Using MSVC 4.1 for install.exe resulted in the start menu items to be
created in the administrator directory instead of "All Users".  Define the
CSIDL_ items if they are missing.

Motif: The GUI tabline did not use the space above the right scrollbar.  Work
around a bug in the Motif library. (Yegappan Lakshmanan)

The extra files for XML Omni completion are now also installed.
|xml-omni-datafile|

GTK GUI: when 'm' is missing from 'guioptions' during startup and pressing
<F10> GTK produced error messages.  Now do create the menu but disable it just
after the first gui_mch_update().

":mkspell" doesn't work well with the Hungarian dictionary from the Hunspell
project.  Back to the Myspell dictionary.

In help files hide the | used around tags.

Renamed pycomplete to pythoncomplete.

Added "tabpages" to 'sessionoptions'.

When 'guitablabel' is set the effect wasn't visible right away.

Fixed a few 'cindent' errors.

When completing menu names, e.g., after ":emenu", don't sort the entries but
keep them in the original order.

Fixed a crash when editing a directory in diff mode.  Don't trigger
autocommands when executing the diff command.

Getting a keystroke could get stuck if 'encoding' is a multi-byte encoding and
typing a special key.

When 'foldignore' is set the folds were not updated right away.

When a list is indexed with [a : b] and b was greater than the length an error
message was given.  Now silently truncate the result.

When using BS during Insert mode completion go back to the original text, so
that CTRL-N selects the first matching entry.

Added the 'M' flag to 'cinoptions'.

Win32: Make the "gvim --help" window appear in the middle of the screen
instead of at an arbitrary position. (Randall W. Morris)

Added gettabwinvar() and settabwinvar().

Command line completion: pressing <Tab> after ":e /usr/*" expands the whole
tree, because it becomes ":e /usr/**".  Don't add a star if there already is
one.

Added grey10 to grey90 to all GUIs, so that they can all be used for
initializing highlighting.  Use grey40 for CursorColumn and CursorLine when
'background' is "dark".

When reading a file and using iconv for conversion, an incomplete byte
sequence at the end caused problems. (Yukihiro Nakadaira)


--- fixes and changes since Vim 7.0e ---

Default color for MatchParen when 'background' is "dark" is now DarkCyan.

":syn off" had to be used twice in a file that sets 'syntax' in a modeline.
(Michael Geddes)

When using ":vsp" or ":sp" the available space wasn't used equally between
windows. (Servatius Brandt)

Expanding <cWORD> on a trailing blank resulted in the first word in the line
if 'encoding' is a multi-byte encoding.

Spell checking: spellbadword() didn't see a missing capital in the first word
of a line.  Popup menu now only suggest the capitalized word when appropriate.

When using whole line completion CTRL-L moves through the matches but it
didn't work when at the original text.

When completion finds the longest match, don't go to the first match but stick
at the original text, so that CTRL-N selects the first one.

Recognize "zsh-beta" like "zsh" for setting the 'shellpipe' default. (James
Vega)

When using ":map <expr>" and the expression results in something with a
special byte (NUL or CSI) then it didn't work properly.  Now escape special
bytes.

The default Visual highlighting for a color xterm with 8 colors was a magenta
background, which made magenta text disappear.  Now use reverse in this
specific situation.

After completing the longest match "." didn't insert the same text.  Repeating
also didn't work correctly for multi-byte text.

When using Insert mode completion and BS the whole word that was completed
would result in all possible matches.  Now stop completion.  Also fixes that
for spell completion the previous word was deleted.

GTK: When 'encoding' is "latin1" and using non-ASCII characters in a file name
the tab page label was wrong and an error message would be given.

The taglist() function could hang on a tags line with a non-ASCII character.

Win32: When 'encoding' differs from the system encoding tab page labels with
non-ASCII characters looked wrong. (Yegappan Lakshmanan)

Motif: building failed when Xm/Notebook.h doesn't exist.  Added a configure
check, disable GUI tabline when it's missing.

Mac: When compiled without multi-byte feature the clipboard didn't work.

It was possible to switch to another tab page when the cmdline window is open.

Completion could hang when 'lines' is 6 and a preview window was opened.

Added CTRL-W gF: open file under cursor in new tab page and jump to the line
number following the file name.
Added 'guitabtooltip'.  Implemented for Win32 (Yegappan Lakshmanan).

Added "throw" to 'debug' option: throw an exception for error messages even
whey they would otherwise be ignored.

When 'keymap' is set and a line contains an invalid entry could get a "No
mapping found" warning instead of a proper error message.

Motif: default to using XpmAttributes instead of XpmAttributes_21.

A few more changes for 64 bit MS-Windows. (George Reilly)

Got ml_get errors when doing "o" and selecting in other window where there are
less lines shorter than the cursor position in the other window.  ins_mouse()
was using position in wrong window.

Win32 GUI: Crash when giving a lot of messages during startup.  Allocate twice
as much memory for the dialog template.

Fixed a few leaks and wrong pointer use reported by coverity.

When showing menus the mode character was sometimes wrong.

Added feedkeys(). (Yakov Lerner)

Made matchlist() always return all submatches.

Moved triggering QuickFixCmdPost to before jumping to the first location.

Mac: Added the 'macatsui' option as a temporary work around for text drawing
problems.

Line completion on "/**" gave error messages when scanning an unloaded buffer.

--- fixes and changes since Vim 7.0f ---

Win32: The height of the tab page labels is now adjusted to the font height.
(Yegappan Lakshmanan)

Win32: selecting the tab label was off by one. (Yegappan Lakshmanan)

Added tooltips for Motif and GTK tab page labels. (Yegappan Lakshmanan)

When 'encoding' is "utf-8" then ":help spell" would report an illegal byte and
the file was not converted from latin1 to utf-8.  Now retry with latin1 if
reading the file as utf-8 results in illegal bytes.

Escape the argument of feedkeys() before putting it in the typeahead buffer.
(Yukihiro Nakadaira)

Added the v:char variable for evaluating 'formatexpr'. (Yukihiro Nakadaira)

With 8 colors Search highlighting combined with Statement highlighted text
made the text disappear.

VMS: avoid warnings for redefining MAX and MIN. (Zoltan Arpadffy)

When 'virtualedit' includes "onemore", stopping Visual selection would still
move the cursor left.

Prevent that using CTRL-R = in Insert mode can start Visual mode.

Fixed a crash that occurred when in Insert mode with completion active and a
mapping caused edit() to be called recursively.

When using CTRL-O in Insert mode just after the last character while
'virtualedit' is "all", then typing CR moved the last character to the next
line.  Call coladvance() before starting the new line.

When using |:shell| ignore clicks on the tab page labels.  Also when using the
command line window.

When 'eventignore' is "all" then adding more to ignoring some events, e.g.,
for ":vimgrep", would actually trigger more events.

Win32: When a running Vim uses server name GVIM1 then "gvim --remote fname"
didn't find it.  When looking for a server name that doesn't end in a digit
and it is not found then use another server with that name and a number (just
like on Unix).

When using "double" in 'spellsuggest' when the language doesn't support sound
folding resulted in too many suggestions.

Win32: Dropping a shortcut on the Vim icon didn't edit the referred file like
editing it in another way would.  Use fname_expand() in buf_set_name() instead
of simply make the file name a full path.

Using feedkeys() could cause Vim to hang.

When closing another tab page from the tabline menu in Insert mode the tabline
was not updated right away.

The syntax menu didn't work in compatible mode.

After using ":tag id" twice with the same "id", ":ts" and then ":pop" a ":ts"
reported no matching tag.  Clear the cached tag name.

In Insert mode the matchparen plugin highlighted the wrong paren when there is
a string just next to a paren.

GTK: After opening a new tab page the text was sometimes not drawn correctly.
Flush output and catch up with events when updating the tab page labels.

In the GUI, using CTRL-W q to close the last window of a tab page could cause
a crash.

GTK: The tab pages line menu was not converted from 'encoding' to utf-8.

Typing a multi-byte character or a special key at the hit-enter prompt did not
work.

When 'virtualedit' contains "onemore" CTRL-O in Insert mode still moved the
cursor left when it was after the end of the line, even though it's allowed to
be there.

Added test for using tab pages.

towupper() and towlower() were not used, because of checking for
__STDC__ISO_10646__ instead of __STDC_ISO_10646__. (sertacyildiz)

For ":map <expr>" forbid changing the text, jumping to another buffer and
using ":normal" to avoid nasty side effects.

--- fixes and changes since Vim 7.0g ---

Compilation error on HP-UX, use of "dlerr" must be inside a #ifdef.
(Gary Johnson)

Report +reltime feature in ":version" output.

The tar and zip plugins detect failure to get the contents of the archive and
edit the file as-is.

When the result of 'guitablabel' is empty fall back to the default label.

Fixed crash when using ":insert" in a while loop and missing "endwhile".

"gt" and other commands could move to another window when |textlock| active
and when the command line window was open.

Spell checking a file with syntax highlighting and a bad word at the end of
the line is ignored could make "]s" hang.

Mac: inputdialog() didn't work when compiled with big features.

Interrupting ":vimgrep" while it is busy loading a file left a modified and
hidden buffer behind.  Use enter_cleanup() and leave_cleanup() around
wipe_buffer().

When making 'keymap' empty the b:keymap_name variable wasn't deleted.

Using CTRL-N that searches a long time, pressing space to interrupt the
searching and accept the first match, the popup menu was still displayed
briefly.

When setting the Vim window height with -geometry the 'window' option could be
at a value that makes CTRL-F behave differently.

When opening a quickfix window in two tabs they used different buffers,
causing redrawing problems later.  Now use the same buffer for all quickfix
windows. (Yegappan Lakshmanan)

When 'mousefocus' is set moving the mouse to the text tab pages line would
move focus to the first window.  Also, the mouse pointer would jump to the
active window.

In a session file, when an empty buffer is wiped out, do this silently.

When one window has the cursor on the last line and another window is resized
to make that window smaller, the cursor line could go below the displayed
lines.  In win_new_height() subtract one from the available space.
Also avoid that using "~" lines makes the window scroll down.

Mac: When sourcing the "macmap.vim" script and then finding a .vimrc file the
'cpo' option isn't set properly, because it was already set and restored.
Added the <special> argument to ":map", so that 'cpo' doesn't need to be
changed to be able to use <> notation.  Also do this for ":menu" for
consistency.

When using "/encoding=abc" in a spell word list, only "bc" was used.

When 'encoding' and 'printencoding' were both "utf-8" then ":hardcopy" didn't
work. (Mike Williams)

Mac: When building with "--disable-gui" the install directory would still be
"/Applications" and Vim.app would be installed.  Now install in /usr/local as
usual for a console application.

GUI: when doing completion and there is one match and still searching for
another, the cursor was displayed at the end of the line instead of after the
match.  Now show the cursor after the match while still searching for matches.

GUI: The mouse shape changed on the statusline even when 'mouse' was empty and
they can't be dragged.

GTK2: Selecting a button in the confirm() dialog with Tab or cursor keys and
hitting Enter didn't select that button.  Removed GTK 1 specific code. (Neil
Bird)

When evaluating 'balloonexpr' takes a long time it could be called
recursively, which could cause a crash.

exists() could not be used to detect whether ":2match" is supported.  Added a
check for it specifically.

GTK1: Tab page labels didn't work. (Yegappan Lakshmanan)

Insert mode completion: When finding matches use 'ignorecase', but when adding
matches to the list don't use it, so that all words with different case are
added, "word", "Word" and "WORD".

When 'cursorline' and 'hlsearch' are set and the search pattern is "x\n"
the rest of the line was highlighted as a match.

Cursor moved while evaluating 'balloonexpr' that invokes ":isearch" and
redirects the output.  Don't move the cursor to the command line if msg_silent
is set.

exists() ignored text after a function name and option name, which could
result in false positives.

exists() ignored characters after the recognized word, which can be wrong when
using a name with non-keyword characters.  Specifically, these calls no longer
allow characters after the name: exists('*funcname') exists('*funcname(...')
exists('&option') exists(':cmd') exists('g:name') exists('g:name[n]')
exists('g:name.n')

Trigger the TabEnter autocommand only after entering the current window of the
tab page, otherwise the commands are executed with an invalid current window.

Win32: When using two monitors and Vim is on the second monitor, changing the
width of the Vim window could make it jump to the first monitor.

When scrolling back at the more prompt and the quitting a line of text would
be left behind when 'cmdheight' is 2 or more.

Fixed a few things for Insert mode completion, especially when typing BS,
CTRL-N or a printable character while still searching for matches.


