*44.12*	Portable syntax file layout

Wouldn't it be nice if all Vim users exchange syntax files?  To make this
possible, the syntax file must follow a few guidelines.

Start with a header that explains what the syntax file is for, who maintains
it and when it was last updated.  Don't include too much information about
changes history, not many people will read it.  Example: >

	" Vim syntax file
	" Language:	C
	" Maintainer:	Bram Moolenaar <Bram@vim.org>
	" Last Change:	2001 Jun 18
	" Remark:	Included by the C++ syntax.

Use the same layout as the other syntax files.  Using an existing syntax file
as an example will save you a lot of time.

Choose a good, descriptive name for your syntax file.  Use lowercase letters
and digits.  Don't make it too long, it is used in many places: The name of
the syntax file "name.vim", 'filetype', b:current_syntax and the start of each
syntax group (nameType, nameStatement, nameString, etc).

Start with a check for "b:current_syntax".  If it is defined, some other
syntax file, earlier in 'runtimepath' was already loaded: >

	if exists("b:current_syntax")
	  finish
	endif

Set "b:current_syntax" to the name of the syntax at the end.  Don't forget
that included files do this too, you might have to reset "b:current_syntax" if
you include two files.

Do not include anything that is a user preference.  Don't set 'tabstop',
'expandtab', etc.  These belong in a filetype plugin.

Do not include mappings or abbreviations.  Only include setting 'iskeyword' if
it is really necessary for recognizing keywords.

To allow users select their own preferred colors, make a different group name
for every kind of highlighted item.  Then link each of them to one of the
standard highlight groups.  That will make it work with every color scheme.
If you select specific colors it will look bad with some color schemes.  And
don't forget that some people use a different background color, or have only
eight colors available.

For the linking use "hi def link", so that the user can select different
highlighting before your syntax file is loaded.  Example: >

	  hi def link nameString	String
	  hi def link nameNumber	Number
	  hi def link nameCommand	Statement
	  ... etc ...

Add the "display" argument to items that are not used when syncing, to speed
up scrolling backwards and CTRL-L.

