DESCRIPTION
       A unit file is a plain text ini-style file that encodes information about a service, a socket, a device, a mount point, an automount point, a swap file or partition, a start-up
       target, a watched file system path, a timer controlled and supervised by systemd(1), a resource management slice or a group of externally created processes. See systemd.syntax(5)
       for a general description of the syntax.

       This man page lists the common configuration options of all the unit types. These options need to be configured in the [Unit] or [Install] sections of the unit files.

       In addition to the generic [Unit] and [Install] sections described here, each unit may have a type-specific section, e.g. [Service] for a service unit. See the respective man
       pages for more information: systemd.service(5), systemd.socket(5), systemd.device(5), systemd.mount(5), systemd.automount(5), systemd.swap(5), systemd.target(5), systemd.path(5),
       systemd.timer(5), systemd.slice(5), systemd.scope(5).

       Unit files are loaded from a set of paths determined during compilation, described in the next section.

       Unit files can be parameterized by a single argument called the "instance name". The unit is then constructed based on a "template file" which serves as the definition of
       multiple services or other units. A template unit must have a single "@" at the end of the name (right before the type suffix). The name of the full unit is formed by inserting
       the instance name between "@" and the unit type suffix. In the unit file itself, the instance parameter may be referred to using "%i" and other specifiers, see below.

       Unit files may contain additional options on top of those listed here. If systemd encounters an unknown option, it will write a warning log message but continue loading the unit.
       If an option or section name is prefixed with X-, it is ignored completely by systemd. Options within an ignored section do not need the prefix. Applications may use this to
       include additional information in the unit files.

       Units can be aliased (have an alternative name), by creating a symlink from the new name to the existing name in one of the unit search paths. For example,
       systemd-networkd.service has the alias dbus-org.freedesktop.network1.service, created during installation as a symlink, so when systemd is asked through D-Bus to load
       dbus-org.freedesktop.network1.service, it'll load systemd-networkd.service. Alias names may be used in commands like enable, disable, start, stop, status, and similar, and in all
       unit dependency directives, including Wants=, Requires=, Before=, After=. Aliases cannot be used with the preset command.

       Unit files may specify aliases through the Alias= directive in the [Install] section. When the unit is enabled, symlinks will be created for those names, and removed when the
       unit is disabled. For example, reboot.target specifies Alias=ctrl-alt-del.target, so when enabled, the symlink /etc/systemd/systemd/ctrl-alt-del.service pointing to the
       reboot.target file will be created, and when Ctrl+Alt+Del is invoked, systemd will look for the ctrl-alt-del.service and execute reboot.service.  systemd does not look at the
       [Install] section at all during normal operation, so any directives in that section only have an effect through the symlinks created during enablement.

       Along with a unit file foo.service, the directory foo.service.wants/ may exist. All unit files symlinked from such a directory are implicitly added as dependencies of type Wants=
       to the unit. Similar functionality exists for Requires= type dependencies as well, the directory suffix is .requires/ in this case. This functionality is useful to hook units
       into the start-up of other units, without having to modify their unit files. For details about the semantics of Wants=, see below. The preferred way to create symlinks in the
       .wants/ or .requires/ directory of a unit file is by embedding the dependency in [Install] section of the target unit, and creating the symlink in the file system with the enable
       or preset commands of systemctl(1).

       Along with a unit file foo.service, a "drop-in" directory foo.service.d/ may exist. All files with the suffix ".conf" from this directory will be parsed after the unit file
       itself is parsed. This is useful to alter or add configuration settings for a unit, without having to modify unit files. Drop-in files must contain appropriate section headers.
       For instantiated units, this logic will first look for the instance ".d/" subdirectory (e.g.  "foo@bar.service.d/") and read its ".conf" files, followed by the template ".d/"
       subdirectory (e.g.  "foo@.service.d/") and the ".conf" files there. Moreover for units names containing dashes ("-"), the set of directories generated by truncating the unit name
       after all dashes is searched too. Specifically, for a unit name foo-bar-baz.service not only the regular drop-in directory foo-bar-baz.service.d/ is searched but also both
       foo-bar-.service.d/ and foo-.service.d/. This is useful for defining common drop-ins for a set of related units, whose names begin with a common prefix. This scheme is
       particularly useful for mount, automount and slice units, whose systematic naming structure is built around dashes as component separators. Note that equally named drop-in files
       further down the prefix hierarchy override those further up, i.e.  foo-bar-.service.d/10-override.conf overrides foo-.service.d/10-override.conf.

       In addition to /etc/systemd/system, the drop-in ".d/" directories for system services can be placed in /usr/lib/systemd/system or /run/systemd/system directories. Drop-in files
       in /etc take precedence over those in /run which in turn take precedence over those in /usr/lib. Drop-in files under any of these directories take precedence over unit files
       wherever located. Multiple drop-in files with different names are applied in lexicographic order, regardless of which of the directories they reside in.

       Note that while systemd offers a flexible dependency system between units it is recommended to use this functionality only sparingly and instead rely on techniques such as
       bus-based or socket-based activation which make dependencies implicit, resulting in a both simpler and more flexible system.

       As mentioned above, a unit may be instantiated from a template file. This allows creation of multiple units from a single configuration file. If systemd looks for a unit
       configuration file, it will first search for the literal unit name in the file system. If that yields no success and the unit name contains an "@" character, systemd will look
       for a unit template that shares the same name but with the instance string (i.e. the part between the "@" character and the suffix) removed. Example: if a service
       getty@tty3.service is requested and no file by that name is found, systemd will look for getty@.service and instantiate a service from that configuration file if it is found.

       To refer to the instance string from within the configuration file you may use the special "%i" specifier in many of the configuration options. See below for details.

       If a unit file is empty (i.e. has the file size 0) or is symlinked to /dev/null, its configuration will not be loaded and it appears with a load state of "masked", and cannot be
       activated. Use this as an effective way to fully disable a unit, making it impossible to start it even manually.

       The unit file format is covered by the Interface Stability Promise[1].

