pulse-cli-syntax(5)                                                                File Formats Manual                                                                pulse-cli-syntax(5)

NAME
       pulse-cli-syntax - PulseAudio Command Line Interface Syntax

SYNOPSIS
       ~/.config/pulse/default.pa

       /etc/pulse/default.pa

       /etc/pulse/system.pa

DESCRIPTION
       PulseAudio  provides  a  simple  command  line language used by configuration scripts, the pacmd interactive shell, and the modules module-cli and module-cli-protocol-{unix,tcp}.
       Empty lines and lines beginning with a hashmark (#) are silently ignored. Several commands are supported.

       Note that any boolean arguments can be given positively as '1', 't', 'y', 'true', 'yes' or 'on'. Likewise, negative values can be given as '0', 'f', 'n', 'false', 'no' or  'off'.
       Case is ignored.

GENERAL COMMANDS
       help   Show a quick help on the commands available.

STATUS COMMANDS
       list-modules
              Show all currently loaded modules with their arguments.

       list-cards
              Show all currently registered cards

       list-sinks or list-sources
              Show all currently registered sinks (resp. sources).

       list-clients
              Show all currently active clients.

       list-sink-inputs or list-source-outputs
              Show all currently active inputs to sinks a.k.a. playback streams (resp. outputs of sources a.k.a. recording streams).

       stat   Show some simple statistics about the allocated memory blocks and the space used by them.

       info or ls or list
              A combination of all status commands described above (all three commands are synonyms).

MODULE MANAGEMENT
       load-module name [arguments...]
              Load a module specified by its name and arguments. For most modules it is OK to be loaded more than once.

       unload-module index|name
              Unload a module, specified either by its index in the module list or its name.

       describe-module name
              Give information about a module specified by its name.

VOLUME COMMANDS
       set-sink-volume|set-source-volume index|name volume
              Set  the volume of the specified sink (resp. source). You may specify the sink (resp. source) either by its index in the sink/source list or by its name. The volume should
              be an integer value greater or equal than 0 (muted). Volume 65536 (0x10000) is 'normal' volume a.k.a. 100%. Values greater than this amplify the audio signal  (with  clip-
              ping).

       set-sink-mute|set-source-mute index|name boolean
              Mute  or  unmute the specified sink (resp. source). You may specify the sink (resp. source) either by its index or by its name. The mute value is either 0 (not muted) or 1
              (muted).

       set-sink-input-volume|set-source-output-volume index volume
              Set the volume of a sink input (resp. source output) specified by its index. The same volume rules apply as with set-sink-volume.

       set-sink-input-mute|set-source-output-mute index boolean
              Mute or unmute a sink input (resp. source output) specified by its index. The same mute rules apply as with set-sink-mute.

CONFIGURATION COMMANDS
       set-default-sink|set-default-source index|name
              Make a sink (resp. source) the default. You may specify the sink (resp. source) by its index in the sink (resp. source) list or by its name.

              Note that defaults may be overridden by various policy modules or by specific stream configurations.

       set-card-profile index|name profile-name
              Change the profile of a card.

       set-sink-port|set-source-port index|name port-name
              Change the profile of a sink (resp. source).

       set-port-latency-offset card-index|card-name port-name offset
              Change the latency offset of a port belonging to the specified card

       suspend-sink|suspend-source name|index true|false
              Suspend or resume the specified sink or source (which may be specified either by its name or index), depending whether true (suspend) or false (resume) is passed  as  last
              argument.  Suspending  a  sink will pause all playback and suspending a source will pause all capturing. Depending on the module implementing the sink or source this might
              have the effect that the underlying device is closed, making it available for other applications to use. The exact behaviour depends on the module.

       suspend boolean
              Suspend all sinks and sources.

MOVING STREAMS
       move-sink-input|move-source-output index sink-index|sink-name
              Move sink input (resp. source output) to another sink (resp. source).

PROPERTY LISTS
       update-sink-proplist|update-source-proplist index|name properties
              Update the properties of a sink (resp. source) specified by name or index. The property is specified as e.g. device.description="My Preferred Name"

       update-sink-input-proplist|update-source-output-proplist index properties
              Update the properties of a sink input (resp. source output) specified by index. The properties are specified as above.

SAMPLE CACHE
       list-samples
              Lists the contents of the sample cache.

       play-sample name sink-index|sink-name
              Play a sample cache entry to a sink.

       remove-sample name
              Remove an entry from the sample cache.

       load-sample name filename
              Load an audio file to the sample cache.

       load-sample-lazy name filename
              Create a new entry in the sample cache, but don't load the sample immediately. The sample is loaded only when it is first used. After a  certain  idle  time  it  is  freed
              again.

       load-sample-dir-lazy path
              Load all entries in the specified directory into the sample cache as lazy entries. A shell globbing expression (e.g. *.wav) may be appended to the path of the directory to
              add.

KILLING CLIENTS/STREAMS
       kill-client index
              Remove a client forcibly from the server. There is no protection against the client reconnecting immediately.

       kill-sink-input|kill-source-output index
              Remove a sink input (resp. source output) forcibly from the server. This will not remove the owning client or any other streams opened by the same client from the server.

LOG COMMANDS
       set-log-level numeric-level
              Change the log level.

       set-log-meta boolean
              Show source code location in log messages.

       set-log-target target
              Change the log target (null, auto, journal, syslog, stderr, file:PATH, newfile:PATH).

       set-log-time boolean
              Show timestamps in log messages.

       set-log-backtrace num-frames
              Show backtrace in log messages.

MISCELLANEOUS COMMANDS
       play-file filename sink-index|sink-name
              Play an audio file to a sink.

       dump   Dump the daemon's current configuration in CLI commands.

       dump-volumes
              Debug: Shows the current state of all volumes.

       shared Debug: Show shared properties.

       exit   Terminate the daemon. If you want to terminate a CLI connection ("log out") you might want to use ctrl+d

META COMMANDS
       In addition to the commands described above there are a few meta directives supported by the command line interpreter.

       .include filename|folder
              Executes the commands from the specified script file or in all of the *.pa files within the folder.

       .fail and .nofail
              Enable (resp. disable) that following failing commands will cancel the execution of the current script file. This is ignored when used on the interactive command line.

       .ifexists filename
              Execute the subsequent block of commands only if the specified file exists. Typically filename indicates a module. Relative paths are resolved using the  module  directory
              as the base. By using an absolute path, the existance of other files can be checked as well.

       .else and .endif
              A block of commands is delimited by an .else or .endif meta command. Nesting conditional commands is not supported.

AUTHORS
       The PulseAudio Developers <pulseaudio-discuss (at) lists (dot) freedesktop (dot) org>; PulseAudio is available from http://pulseaudio.org/

SEE ALSO
       default.pa(5), pacmd(1), pulseaudio(1)

Manuals                                                                                    User                                                                       pulse-cli-syntax(5)
