GC(1)                                                                            General Commands Manual                                                                            GC(1)

NAME
       smyrna - interactive graph viewer

SYNOPSIS
       smyrna [ -v?  ] [ file ]

DESCRIPTION
       smyrna  is a viewer for graphs in the DOT format.  It is especially designed to handle large graphs, and allows flat and topological fisheye views.  It is assumed the input graph
       has position information associated with all nodes. Using the Graphviz convention, a node's position is given by its pos attribute consisting of 2 or  3  floating  point  numbers
       separated by commas.  Nodes are drawn as points and edges as line segments.

       If smyrna detects that the file contains xdot attributes, it will use this information when drawing nodes and edges.

       smyrna supports panning and zooming; node and edge selection; setting and retrieving node and edge attributes, especially colors; and node movement.  The Smyrna Settings dialogue
       box available under the Edit pull-down menu gives the user many choices for tailoring the graph view. These include whether or not nodes/edges are drawn; what labels are  associ-
       ated with nodes/edges; node size; transparency settings for nodes/edges; parameters associated with the topological fisheye view.

       For the purposes of exploratory data analysis, smyrna provides access to the gvpr library. This allows the user to arbitrarily query, filter or manipulate a graph. When filtering
       or manipulating a graph, the user has the option of performing the changes directly on the input graph, or to create a new version with the changes.

OPTIONS
       The following options are supported:

       -v     Verbose mode.

       -?     Print usage information.

       By default, gc returns the number of nodes and edges.

OPERANDS
       The following operand is supported:

       file    Name of file containing a graph in DOT format.  If no file operand is specified, the user can employ the File pull-down menu to select a file to be opened.

EXIT STATUS
       The following exit values are returned:

       0   Successful completion.

       1   If no No appropriate OpenGL-capable visual found, or if the default attributes template graph file or the default attributes widget graph file could not be read.

FILES
       smyrna relies on numerous support files. These are usually installed in the "share/graphviz/smyrna" directory below the installation root. The principal files are:

       template.dot
              A file in DOT format specifying the default smyrna settings.  In particular, these are used to initialize the settings of the Smyrna Settings dialogue box.

       mouse_actions.txt
              A text file specifying the mapping of concrete mouse and keyboard events with smyrna actions such as panning and selecting.

       attr_widgets.dot
              A file in DOT format specifying the bindings between GUI widgets and smyrna parameters.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       SMYRNA_PATH
              allows a user to override the built-in path to the directory containing all of smyrna's files described above.

AUTHOR
       Arif Bilgin <arif@research.att.com>
       Emden R. Gansner <erg@research.att.com>

SEE ALSO
       gvpr(1), dotty(1), libcgraph(3)
       "Smyrna Tutorial and Reference Manual"

                                                                                     9 December 2009                                                                                GC(1)
