5.  Protocol Data Structures

    The OSPF protocol is described herein in terms of its operation on
    various protocol data structures.  The following list comprises the
    top-level OSPF data structures.  Any initialization that needs to be
    done is noted.  OSPF areas, interfaces and neighbors also have
    associated data structures that are described later in this
    specification.

    Router ID
        A 32-bit number that uniquely identifies this router in the AS.
        One possible implementation strategy would be to use the
        smallest IP interface address belonging to the router. If a
        router's OSPF Router ID is changed, the router's OSPF software
        should be restarted before the new Router ID takes effect.  In
        this case the router should flush its self-originated LSAs from
        the routing domain (see Section 14.1) before restarting, or they
        will persist for up to MaxAge minutes.



Moy                         Standards Track                    [Page 47]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


    Area structures
        Each one of the areas to which the router is connected has its
        own data structure.  This data structure describes the working
        of the basic OSPF algorithm.  Remember that each area runs a
        separate copy of the basic OSPF algorithm.

    Backbone (area) structure
        The OSPF backbone area is responsible for the dissemination of
        inter-area routing information.

    Virtual links configured
        The virtual links configured with this router as one endpoint.
        In order to have configured virtual links, the router itself
        must be an area border router.  Virtual links are identified by
        the Router ID of the other endpoint -- which is another area
        border router.  These two endpoint routers must be attached to a
        common area, called the virtual link's Transit area.  Virtual
        links are part of the backbone, and behave as if they were
        unnumbered point-to-point networks between the two routers.  A
        virtual link uses the intra-area routing of its Transit area to
        forward packets.  Virtual links are brought up and down through
        the building of the shortest-path trees for the Transit area.

    List of external routes
        These are routes to destinations external to the Autonomous
        System, that have been gained either through direct experience
        with another routing protocol (such as BGP), or through
        configuration information, or through a combination of the two
        (e.g., dynamic external information to be advertised by OSPF
        with configured metric). Any router having these external routes
        is called an AS boundary router.  These routes are advertised by
        the router into the OSPF routing domain via AS-external-LSAs.

    List of AS-external-LSAs
        Part of the link-state database.  These have originated from the
        AS boundary routers.  They comprise routes to destinations
        external to the Autonomous System.  Note that, if the router is
        itself an AS boundary router, some of these AS-external-LSAs
        have been self-originated.






Moy                         Standards Track                    [Page 48]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


    The routing table
        Derived from the link-state database.  Each entry in the routing
        table is indexed by a destination, and contains the
        destination's cost and a set of paths to use in forwarding
        packets to the destination. A path is described by its type and
        next hop.  For more information, see Section 11.

    Figure 9 shows the collection of data structures present in a
    typical router.  The router pictured is RT10, from the map in Figure
    6.  Note that Router RT10 has a virtual link configured to Router
    RT11, with Area 2 as the link's Transit area.  This is indicated by
    the dashed line in Figure 9.  When the virtual link becomes active,
    through the building of the shortest path tree for Area 2, it
    becomes an interface to the backbone (see the two backbone
    interfaces depicted in Figure 9).

