A.1 Encapsulation of OSPF packets

    OSPF runs directly over the Internet Protocol's network layer.  OSPF
    packets are therefore encapsulated solely by IP and local data-link
    headers.

    OSPF does not define a way to fragment its protocol packets, and
    depends on IP fragmentation when transmitting packets larger than
    the network MTU. If necessary, the length of OSPF packets can be up
    to 65,535 bytes (including the IP header).  The OSPF packet types
    that are likely to be large (Database Description Packets, Link
    State Request, Link State Update, and Link State Acknowledgment
    packets) can usually be split into several separate protocol
    packets, without loss of functionality.  This is recommended; IP
    fragmentation should be avoided whenever possible.  Using this
    reasoning, an attempt should be made to limit the sizes of OSPF
    packets sent over virtual links to 576 bytes unless Path MTU
    Discovery is being performed (see [Ref22]).

    The other important features of OSPF's IP encapsulation are:

    o   Use of IP multicast.  Some OSPF messages are multicast, when
        sent over broadcast networks.  Two distinct IP multicast
        addresses are used.  Packets sent to these multicast addresses
        should never be forwarded; they are meant to travel a single hop
        only.  To ensure that these packets will not travel multiple
        hops, their IP TTL must be set to 1.



Moy                         Standards Track                   [Page 185]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


        AllSPFRouters
            This multicast address has been assigned the value
            224.0.0.5.  All routers running OSPF should be prepared to
            receive packets sent to this address.  Hello packets are
            always sent to this destination.  Also, certain OSPF
            protocol packets are sent to this address during the
            flooding procedure.

        AllDRouters
            This multicast address has been assigned the value
            224.0.0.6.  Both the Designated Router and Backup Designated
            Router must be prepared to receive packets destined to this
            address.  Certain OSPF protocol packets are sent to this
            address during the flooding procedure.

    o   OSPF is IP protocol number 89.  This number has been registered
        with the Network Information Center.  IP protocol number
        assignments are documented in [Ref11].

    o   All OSPF routing protocol packets are sent using the normal
        service TOS value of binary 0000 defined in [Ref12].

    o   Routing protocol packets are sent with IP precedence set to
        Internetwork Control.  OSPF protocol packets should be given
        precedence over regular IP data traffic, in both sending and
        receiving.  Setting the IP precedence field in the IP header to
        Internetwork Control [Ref5] may help implement this objective.


















Moy                         Standards Track                   [Page 186]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


