7.  Bringing Up Adjacencies

    OSPF creates adjacencies between neighboring routers for the purpose
    of exchanging routing information.  Not every two neighboring
    routers will become adjacent.  This section covers the generalities
    involved in creating adjacencies.  For further details consult
    Section 10.


    7.1.  The Hello Protocol

        The Hello Protocol is responsible for establishing and
        maintaining neighbor relationships.  It also ensures that
        communication between neighbors is bidirectional.  Hello packets
        are sent periodically out all router interfaces.  Bidirectional
        communication is indicated when the router sees itself listed in
        the neighbor's Hello Packet.  On broadcast and NBMA networks,
        the Hello Protocol elects a Designated Router for the network.

        The Hello Protocol works differently on broadcast networks, NBMA
        networks and Point-to-MultiPoint networks.  On broadcast
        networks, each router advertises itself by periodically
        multicasting Hello Packets.  This allows neighbors to be
        discovered dynamically.  These Hello Packets contain the
        router's view of the Designated Router's identity, and the list
        of routers whose Hello Packets have been seen recently.

        On NBMA networks some configuration information may be necessary
        for the operation of the Hello Protocol.  Each router that may
        potentially become Designated Router has a list of all other



Moy                         Standards Track                    [Page 52]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


        routers attached to the network.  A router, having Designated
        Router potential, sends Hello Packets to all other potential
        Designated Routers when its interface to the NBMA network first
        becomes operational.  This is an attempt to find the Designated
        Router for the network.  If the router itself is elected
        Designated Router, it begins sending Hello Packets to all other
        routers attached to the network.

        On Point-to-MultiPoint networks, a router sends Hello Packets to
        all neighbors with which it can communicate directly. These
        neighbors may be discovered dynamically through a protocol such
        as Inverse ARP (see [Ref14]), or they may be configured.

        After a neighbor has been discovered, bidirectional
        communication ensured, and (if on a broadcast or NBMA network) a
        Designated Router elected, a decision is made regarding whether
        or not an adjacency should be formed with the neighbor (see
        Section 10.4). If an adjacency is to be formed, the first step
        is to synchronize the neighbors' link-state databases.  This is
        covered in the next section.


    7.2.  The Synchronization of Databases

        In a link-state routing algorithm, it is very important for all
        routers' link-state databases to stay synchronized.  OSPF
        simplifies this by requiring only adjacent routers to remain
        synchronized.  The synchronization process begins as soon as the
        routers attempt to bring up the adjacency.  Each router
        describes its database by sending a sequence of Database
        Description packets to its neighbor.  Each Database Description
        Packet describes a set of LSAs belonging to the router's
        database.  When the neighbor sees an LSA that is more recent
        than its own database copy, it makes a note that this newer LSA
        should be requested.

        This sending and receiving of Database Description packets is
        called the "Database Exchange Process".  During this process,
        the two routers form a master/slave relationship.  Each Database
        Description Packet has a sequence number.  Database Description
        Packets sent by the master (polls) are acknowledged by the slave
        through echoing of the sequence number.  Both polls and their



Moy                         Standards Track                    [Page 53]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


        responses contain summaries of link state data.  The master is
        the only one allowed to retransmit Database Description Packets.
        It does so only at fixed intervals, the length of which is the
        configured per-interface constant RxmtInterval.

        Each Database Description contains an indication that there are
        more packets to follow --- the M-bit.  The Database Exchange
        Process is over when a router has received and sent Database
        Description Packets with the M-bit off.

        During and after the Database Exchange Process, each router has
        a list of those LSAs for which the neighbor has more up-to-date
        instances.  These LSAs are requested in Link State Request
        Packets.  Link State Request packets that are not satisfied are
        retransmitted at fixed intervals of time RxmtInterval.  When the
        Database Description Process has completed and all Link State
        Requests have been satisfied, the databases are deemed
        synchronized and the routers are marked fully adjacent.  At this
        time the adjacency is fully functional and is advertised in the
        two routers' router-LSAs.

        The adjacency is used by the flooding procedure as soon as the
        Database Exchange Process begins.  This simplifies database
        synchronization, and guarantees that it finishes in a
        predictable period of time.


    7.3.  The Designated Router

        Every broadcast and NBMA network has a Designated Router.  The
        Designated Router performs two main functions for the routing
        protocol:

        o   The Designated Router originates a network-LSA on behalf of
            the network.  This LSA lists the set of routers (including
            the Designated Router itself) currently attached to the
            network.  The Link State ID for this LSA (see Section
            12.1.4) is the IP interface address of the Designated
            Router.  The IP network number can then be obtained by using
            the network's subnet/network mask.





Moy                         Standards Track                    [Page 54]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


        o   The Designated Router becomes adjacent to all other routers
            on the network.  Since the link state databases are
            synchronized across adjacencies (through adjacency bring-up
            and then the flooding procedure), the Designated Router
            plays a central part in the synchronization process.


        The Designated Router is elected by the Hello Protocol.  A
        router's Hello Packet contains its Router Priority, which is
        configurable on a per-interface basis.  In general, when a
        router's interface to a network first becomes functional, it
        checks to see whether there is currently a Designated Router for
        the network.  If there is, it accepts that Designated Router,
        regardless of its Router Priority.  (This makes it harder to
        predict the identity of the Designated Router, but ensures that
        the Designated Router changes less often.  See below.)
        Otherwise, the router itself becomes Designated Router if it has
        the highest Router Priority on the network.  A more detailed
        (and more accurate) description of Designated Router election is
        presented in Section 9.4.

        The Designated Router is the endpoint of many adjacencies.  In
        order to optimize the flooding procedure on broadcast networks,
        the Designated Router multicasts its Link State Update Packets
        to the address AllSPFRouters, rather than sending separate
        packets over each adjacency.

        Section 2 of this document discusses the directed graph
        representation of an area.  Router nodes are labelled with their
        Router ID.  Transit network nodes are actually labelled with the
        IP address of their Designated Router.  It follows that when the
        Designated Router changes, it appears as if the network node on
        the graph is replaced by an entirely new node.  This will cause
        the network and all its attached routers to originate new LSAs.
        Until the link-state databases again converge, some temporary
        loss of connectivity may result.  This may result in ICMP
        unreachable messages being sent in response to data traffic.
        For that reason, the Designated Router should change only
        infrequently.  Router Priorities should be configured so that
        the most dependable router on a network eventually becomes
        Designated Router.




Moy                         Standards Track                    [Page 55]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


    7.4.  The Backup Designated Router

        In order to make the transition to a new Designated Router
        smoother, there is a Backup Designated Router for each broadcast
        and NBMA network.  The Backup Designated Router is also adjacent
        to all routers on the network, and becomes Designated Router
        when the previous Designated Router fails.  If there were no
        Backup Designated Router, when a new Designated Router became
        necessary, new adjacencies would have to be formed between the
        new Designated Router and all other routers attached to the
        network.  Part of the adjacency forming process is the
        synchronizing of link-state databases, which can potentially
        take quite a long time.  During this time, the network would not
        be available for transit data traffic.  The Backup Designated
        obviates the need to form these adjacencies, since they already
        exist.  This means the period of disruption in transit traffic
        lasts only as long as it takes to flood the new LSAs (which
        announce the new Designated Router).

        The Backup Designated Router does not generate a network-LSA for
        the network.  (If it did, the transition to a new Designated
        Router would be even faster.  However, this is a tradeoff
        between database size and speed of convergence when the
        Designated Router disappears.)

        The Backup Designated Router is also elected by the Hello
        Protocol.  Each Hello Packet has a field that specifies the
        Backup Designated Router for the network.

        In some steps of the flooding procedure, the Backup Designated
        Router plays a passive role, letting the Designated Router do
        more of the work.  This cuts down on the amount of local routing
        traffic.  See Section 13.3 for more information.


    7.5.  The graph of adjacencies

        An adjacency is bound to the network that the two routers have
        in common.  If two routers have multiple networks in common,
        they may have multiple adjacencies between them.





Moy                         Standards Track                    [Page 56]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


        One can picture the collection of adjacencies on a network as
        forming an undirected graph.  The vertices consist of routers,
        with an edge joining two routers if they are adjacent.  The
        graph of adjacencies describes the flow of routing protocol
        packets, and in particular Link State Update Packets, through
        the Autonomous System.

        Two graphs are possible, depending on whether a Designated
        Router is elected for the network.  On physical point-to-point
        networks, Point-to-MultiPoint networks and virtual links,
        neighboring routers become adjacent whenever they can
        communicate directly.  In contrast, on broadcast and NBMA
        networks only the Designated Router and the Backup Designated
        Router become adjacent to all other routers attached to the
        network.



          +---+            +---+
          |RT1|------------|RT2|            o---------------o
          +---+    N1      +---+           RT1             RT2



                                                 RT7
                                                  o---------+
            +---+   +---+   +---+                /|\        |
            |RT7|   |RT3|   |RT4|               / | \       |
            +---+   +---+   +---+              /  |  \      |
              |       |       |               /   |   \     |
         +-----------------------+        RT5o RT6o    oRT4 |
                  |       |     N2            *   *   *     |
                +---+   +---+                  *  *  *      |
                |RT5|   |RT6|                   * * *       |
                +---+   +---+                    ***        |
                                                  o---------+
                                                 RT3


                  Figure 10: The graph of adjacencies





Moy                         Standards Track                    [Page 57]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


        These graphs are shown in Figure 10.  It is assumed that Router
        RT7 has become the Designated Router, and Router RT3 the Backup
        Designated Router, for the Network N2.  The Backup Designated
        Router performs a lesser function during the flooding procedure
        than the Designated Router (see Section 13.3).  This is the
        reason for the dashed lines connecting the Backup Designated
        Router RT3.


