15.  Virtual Links

    The single backbone area (Area ID = 0.0.0.0) cannot be disconnected,
    or some areas of the Autonomous System will become unreachable.  To
    establish/maintain connectivity of the backbone, virtual links can
    be configured through non-backbone areas.  Virtual links serve to
    connect physically separate components of the backbone.  The two
    endpoints of a virtual link are area border routers.  The virtual
    link must be configured in both routers.  The configuration
    information in each router consists of the other virtual endpoint
    (the other area border router), and the non-backbone area the two
    routers have in common (called the Transit area).  Virtual links
    cannot be configured through stub areas (see Section 3.6).

    The virtual link is treated as if it were an unnumbered point-to-
    point network belonging to the backbone and joining the two area
    border routers.  An attempt is made to establish an adjacency over
    the virtual link.  When this adjacency is established, the virtual
    link will be included in backbone router-LSAs, and OSPF packets
    pertaining to the backbone area will flow over the adjacency.  Such
    an adjacency has been referred to in this document as a "virtual
    adjacency".

    In each endpoint router, the cost and viability of the virtual link
    is discovered by examining the routing table entry for the other
    endpoint router.  (The entry's associated area must be the
    configured Transit area).  This is called the virtual link's
    corresponding routing table entry.  The InterfaceUp event occurs for
    a virtual link when its corresponding routing table entry becomes
    reachable.  Conversely, the InterfaceDown event occurs when its
    routing table entry becomes unreachable.  In other words, the
    virtual link's viability is determined by the existence of an
    intra-area path, through the Transit area, between the two
    endpoints.  Note that a virtual link whose underlying path has cost
    greater than hexadecimal 0xffff (the maximum size of an interface
    cost in a router-LSA) should be considered inoperational (i.e.,
    treated the same as if the path did not exist).

    The other details concerning virtual links are as follows:

    o   AS-external-LSAs are NEVER flooded over virtual adjacencies.
        This would be duplication of effort, since the same AS-



Moy                         Standards Track                   [Page 158]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


        external-LSAs are already flooded throughout the virtual link's
        Transit area.  For this same reason, AS-external-LSAs are not
        summarized over virtual adjacencies during the Database Exchange
        process.

    o   The cost of a virtual link is NOT configured.  It is defined to
        be the cost of the intra-area path between the two defining area
        border routers.  This cost appears in the virtual link's
        corresponding routing table entry.  When the cost of a virtual
        link changes, a new router-LSA should be originated for the
        backbone area.

    o   Just as the virtual link's cost and viability are determined by
        the routing table build process (through construction of the
        routing table entry for the other endpoint), so are the IP
        interface address for the virtual interface and the virtual
        neighbor's IP address.  These are used when sending OSPF
        protocol packets over the virtual link. Note that when one (or
        both) of the virtual link endpoints connect to the Transit area
        via an unnumbered point-to-point link, it may be impossible to
        calculate either the virtual interface's IP address and/or the
        virtual neighbor's IP address, thereby causing the virtual link
        to fail.

    o   In each endpoint's router-LSA for the backbone, the virtual link
        is represented as a Type 4 link whose Link ID is set to the
        virtual neighbor's OSPF Router ID and whose Link Data is set to
        the virtual interface's IP address.  See Section 12.4.1 for more
        information.

    o   A non-backbone area can carry transit data traffic (i.e., is
        considered a "transit area") if and only if it serves as the
        Transit area for one or more fully adjacent virtual links (see
        TransitCapability in Sections 6 and 16.1). Such an area requires
        special treatment when summarizing backbone networks into it
        (see Section 12.4.3), and during the routing calculation (see
        Section 16.3).

    o   The time between link state retransmissions, RxmtInterval, is
        configured for a virtual link.  This should be well over the
        expected round-trip delay between the two routers.  This may be




Moy                         Standards Track                   [Page 159]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


        hard to estimate for a virtual link; it is better to err on the
        side of making it too large.


