16.  Calculation of the routing table

    This section details the OSPF routing table calculation.  Using its
    attached areas' link state databases as input, a router runs the
    following algorithm, building its routing table step by step.  At
    each step, the router must access individual pieces of the link
    state databases (e.g., a router-LSA originated by a certain router).
    This access is performed by the lookup function discussed in Section
    12.2.  The lookup process may return an LSA whose LS age is equal to
    MaxAge.  Such an LSA should not be used in the routing table
    calculation, and is treated just as if the lookup process had
    failed.

    The OSPF routing table's organization is explained in Section 11.
    Two examples of the routing table build process are presented in
    Sections 11.2 and 11.3.  This process can be broken into the
    following steps:

    (1) The present routing table is invalidated.  The routing table is
        built again from scratch.  The old routing table is saved so
        that changes in routing table entries can be identified.

    (2) The intra-area routes are calculated by building the shortest-
        path tree for each attached area.  In particular, all routing
        table entries whose Destination Type is "area border router" are
        calculated in this step.  This step is described in two parts.
        At first the tree is constructed by only considering those links
        between routers and transit networks.  Then the stub networks
        are incorporated into the tree. During the area's shortest-path
        tree calculation, the area's TransitCapability is also
        calculated for later use in Step 4.

    (3) The inter-area routes are calculated, through examination of
        summary-LSAs.  If the router is attached to multiple areas
        (i.e., it is an area border router), only backbone summary-LSAs
        are examined.





Moy                         Standards Track                   [Page 160]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


    (4) In area border routers connecting to one or more transit areas
        (i.e, non-backbone areas whose TransitCapability is found to be
        TRUE), the transit areas' summary-LSAs are examined to see
        whether better paths exist using the transit areas than were
        found in Steps 2-3 above.

    (5) Routes to external destinations are calculated, through
        examination of AS-external-LSAs.  The locations of the AS
        boundary routers (which originate the AS-external-LSAs) have
        been determined in steps 2-4.


    Steps 2-5 are explained in further detail below.

    Changes made to routing table entries as a result of these
    calculations can cause the OSPF protocol to take further actions.
    For example, a change to an intra-area route will cause an area
    border router to originate new summary-LSAs (see Section 12.4).  See
    Section 16.7 for a complete list of the OSPF protocol actions
    resulting from routing table changes.


    16.1.  Calculating the shortest-path tree for an area

        This calculation yields the set of intra-area routes associated
        with an area (called hereafter Area A).  A router calculates the
        shortest-path tree using itself as the root.[22] The formation
        of the shortest path tree is done here in two stages.  In the
        first stage, only links between routers and transit networks are
        considered.  Using the Dijkstra algorithm, a tree is formed from
        this subset of the link state database.  In the second stage,
        leaves are added to the tree by considering the links to stub
        networks.

        The procedure will be explained using the graph terminology that
        was introduced in Section 2.  The area's link state database is
        represented as a directed graph.  The graph's vertices are
        routers, transit networks and stub networks.  The first stage of
        the procedure concerns only the transit vertices (routers and
        transit networks) and their connecting links.  Throughout the
        shortest path calculation, the following data is also associated
        with each transit vertex:



Moy                         Standards Track                   [Page 161]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


        Vertex (node) ID
            A 32-bit number which together with the vertex type (router
            or network) uniquely identifies the vertex.  For router
            vertices the Vertex ID is the router's OSPF Router ID.  For
            network vertices, it is the IP address of the network's
            Designated Router.

        An LSA
            Each transit vertex has an associated LSA.  For router
            vertices, this is a router-LSA.  For transit networks, this
            is a network-LSA (which is actually originated by the
            network's Designated Router).  In any case, the LSA's Link
            State ID is always equal to the above Vertex ID.

        List of next hops
            The list of next hops for the current set of shortest paths
            from the root to this vertex.  There can be multiple
            shortest paths due to the equal-cost multipath capability.
            Each next hop indicates the outgoing router interface to use
            when forwarding traffic to the destination.  On broadcast,
            Point-to-MultiPoint and NBMA networks, the next hop also
            includes the IP address of the next router (if any) in the
            path towards the destination.

        Distance from root
            The link state cost of the current set of shortest paths
            from the root to the vertex.  The link state cost of a path
            is calculated as the sum of the costs of the path's
            constituent links (as advertised in router-LSAs and
            network-LSAs).  One path is said to be "shorter" than
            another if it has a smaller link state cost.


        The first stage of the procedure (i.e., the Dijkstra algorithm)
        can now be summarized as follows. At each iteration of the
        algorithm, there is a list of candidate vertices.  Paths from
        the root to these vertices have been found, but not necessarily
        the shortest ones.  However, the paths to the candidate vertex
        that is closest to the root are guaranteed to be shortest; this
        vertex is added to the shortest-path tree, removed from the
        candidate list, and its adjacent vertices are examined for
        possible addition to/modification of the candidate list.  The



Moy                         Standards Track                   [Page 162]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


        algorithm then iterates again.  It terminates when the candidate
        list becomes empty.

        The following steps describe the algorithm in detail.  Remember
        that we are computing the shortest path tree for Area A.  All
        references to link state database lookup below are from Area A's
        database.

        (1) Initialize the algorithm's data structures.  Clear the list
            of candidate vertices.  Initialize the shortest-path tree to
            only the root (which is the router doing the calculation).
            Set Area A's TransitCapability to FALSE.

        (2) Call the vertex just added to the tree vertex V.  Examine
            the LSA associated with vertex V.  This is a lookup in the
            Area A's link state database based on the Vertex ID.  If
            this is a router-LSA, and bit V of the router-LSA (see
            Section A.4.2) is set, set Area A's TransitCapability to
            TRUE.  In any case, each link described by the LSA gives the
            cost to an adjacent vertex.  For each described link, (say
            it joins vertex V to vertex W):

            (a) If this is a link to a stub network, examine the next
                link in V's LSA.  Links to stub networks will be
                considered in the second stage of the shortest path
                calculation.

            (b) Otherwise, W is a transit vertex (router or transit
                network).  Look up the vertex W's LSA (router-LSA or
                network-LSA) in Area A's link state database.  If the
                LSA does not exist, or its LS age is equal to MaxAge, or
                it does not have a link back to vertex V, examine the
                next link in V's LSA.[23]

            (c) If vertex W is already on the shortest-path tree,
                examine the next link in the LSA.

            (d) Calculate the link state cost D of the resulting path
                from the root to vertex W.  D is equal to the sum of the
                link state cost of the (already calculated) shortest
                path to vertex V and the advertised cost of the link
                between vertices V and W.  If D is:



Moy                         Standards Track                   [Page 163]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


                o   Greater than the value that already appears for
                    vertex W on the candidate list, then examine the
                    next link.

                o   Equal to the value that appears for vertex W on the
                    candidate list, calculate the set of next hops that
                    result from using the advertised link.  Input to
                    this calculation is the destination (W), and its
                    parent (V).  This calculation is shown in Section
                    16.1.1.  This set of hops should be added to the
                    next hop values that appear for W on the candidate
                    list.

                o   Less than the value that appears for vertex W on the
                    candidate list, or if W does not yet appear on the
                    candidate list, then set the entry for W on the
                    candidate list to indicate a distance of D from the
                    root.  Also calculate the list of next hops that
                    result from using the advertised link, setting the
                    next hop values for W accordingly.  The next hop
                    calculation is described in Section 16.1.1; it takes
                    as input the destination (W) and its parent (V).

        (3) If at this step the candidate list is empty, the shortest-
            path tree (of transit vertices) has been completely built
            and this stage of the procedure terminates.  Otherwise,
            choose the vertex belonging to the candidate list that is
            closest to the root, and add it to the shortest-path tree
            (removing it from the candidate list in the process). Note
            that when there is a choice of vertices closest to the root,
            network vertices must be chosen before router vertices in
            order to necessarily find all equal-cost paths. This is
            consistent with the tie-breakers that were introduced in the
            modified Dijkstra algorithm used by OSPF's Multicast routing
            extensions (MOSPF).

        (4) Possibly modify the routing table.  For those routing table
            entries modified, the associated area will be set to Area A,
            the path type will be set to intra-area, and the cost will
            be set to the newly discovered shortest path's calculated
            distance.




Moy                         Standards Track                   [Page 164]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


            If the newly added vertex is an area border router or AS
            boundary router, a routing table entry is added whose
            destination type is "router".  The Options field found in
            the associated router-LSA is copied into the routing table
            entry's Optional capabilities field. Call the newly added
            vertex Router X.  If Router X is the endpoint of one of the
            calculating router's virtual links, and the virtual link
            uses Area A as Transit area:  the virtual link is declared
            up, the IP address of the virtual interface is set to the IP
            address of the outgoing interface calculated above for
            Router X, and the virtual neighbor's IP address is set to
            Router X's interface address (contained in Router X's
            router-LSA) that points back to the root of the shortest-
            path tree; equivalently, this is the interface that points
            back to Router X's parent vertex on the shortest-path tree
            (similar to the calculation in Section 16.1.1).

            If the newly added vertex is a transit network, the routing
            table entry for the network is located.  The entry's
            Destination ID is the IP network number, which can be
            obtained by masking the Vertex ID (Link State ID) with its
            associated subnet mask (found in the body of the associated
            network-LSA).  If the routing table entry already exists
            (i.e., there is already an intra-area route to the
            destination installed in the routing table), multiple
            vertices have mapped to the same IP network.  For example,
            this can occur when a new Designated Router is being
            established.  In this case, the current routing table entry
            should be overwritten if and only if the newly found path is
            just as short and the current routing table entry's Link
            State Origin has a smaller Link State ID than the newly
            added vertex' LSA.

            If there is no routing table entry for the network (the
            usual case), a routing table entry for the IP network should
            be added.  The routing table entry's Link State Origin
            should be set to the newly added vertex' LSA.

        (5) Iterate the algorithm by returning to Step 2.






Moy                         Standards Track                   [Page 165]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


        The stub networks are added to the tree in the procedure's
        second stage.  In this stage, all router vertices are again
        examined.  Those that have been determined to be unreachable in
        the above first phase are discarded.  For each reachable router
        vertex (call it V), the associated router-LSA is found in the
        link state database.  Each stub network link appearing in the
        LSA is then examined, and the following steps are executed:

        (1) Calculate the distance D of stub network from the root.  D
            is equal to the distance from the root to the router vertex
            (calculated in stage 1), plus the stub network link's
            advertised cost.  Compare this distance to the current best
            cost to the stub network.  This is done by looking up the
            stub network's current routing table entry.  If the
            calculated distance D is larger, go on to examine the next
            stub network link in the LSA.

        (2) If this step is reached, the stub network's routing table
            entry must be updated.  Calculate the set of next hops that
            would result from using the stub network link.  This
            calculation is shown in Section 16.1.1; input to this
            calculation is the destination (the stub network) and the
            parent vertex (the router vertex).  If the distance D is the
            same as the current routing table cost, simply add this set
            of next hops to the routing table entry's list of next hops.
            In this case, the routing table already has a Link State
            Origin.  If this Link State Origin is a router-LSA whose
            Link State ID is smaller than V's Router ID, reset the Link
            State Origin to V's router-LSA.

            Otherwise D is smaller than the routing table cost.
            Overwrite the current routing table entry by setting the
            routing table entry's cost to D, and by setting the entry's
            list of next hops to the newly calculated set.  Set the
            routing table entry's Link State Origin to V's router-LSA.
            Then go on to examine the next stub network link.


        For all routing table entries added/modified in the second
        stage, the associated area will be set to Area A and the path
        type will be set to intra-area.  When the list of reachable
        router-LSAs is exhausted, the second stage is completed.  At



Moy                         Standards Track                   [Page 166]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


        this time, all intra-area routes associated with Area A have
        been determined.

        The specification does not require that the above two stage
        method be used to calculate the shortest path tree.  However, if
        another algorithm is used, an identical tree must be produced.
        For this reason, it is important to note that links between
        transit vertices must be bidirectional in order to be included
        in the above tree.  It should also be mentioned that more
        efficient algorithms exist for calculating the tree; for
        example, the incremental SPF algorithm described in [Ref1].


        16.1.1.  The next hop calculation

            This section explains how to calculate the current set of
            next hops to use for a destination.  Each next hop consists
            of the outgoing interface to use in forwarding packets to
            the destination together with the IP address of the next hop
            router (if any).  The next hop calculation is invoked each
            time a shorter path to the destination is discovered.  This
            can happen in either stage of the shortest-path tree
            calculation (see Section 16.1).  In stage 1 of the
            shortest-path tree calculation a shorter path is found as
            the destination is added to the candidate list, or when the
            destination's entry on the candidate list is modified (Step
            2d of Stage 1).  In stage 2 a shorter path is discovered
            each time the destination's routing table entry is modified
            (Step 2 of Stage 2).

            The set of next hops to use for the destination may be
            recalculated several times during the shortest-path tree
            calculation, as shorter and shorter paths are discovered.
            In the end, the destination's routing table entry will
            always reflect the next hops resulting from the absolute
            shortest path(s).

            Input to the next hop calculation is a) the destination and
            b) its parent in the current shortest path between the root
            (the calculating router) and the destination.  The parent is
            always a transit vertex (i.e., always a router or a transit
            network).



Moy                         Standards Track                   [Page 167]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


            If there is at least one intervening router in the current
            shortest path between the destination and the root, the
            destination simply inherits the set of next hops from the
            parent.  Otherwise, there are two cases.  In the first case,
            the parent vertex is the root (the calculating router
            itself).  This means that the destination is either a
            directly connected network or directly connected router.
            The outgoing interface in this case is simply the OSPF
            interface connecting to the destination network/router. If
            the destination is a router which connects to the
            calculating router via a Point-to-MultiPoint network, the
            destination's next hop IP address(es) can be determined by
            examining the destination's router-LSA: each link pointing
            back to the calculating router and having a Link Data field
            belonging to the Point-to-MultiPoint network provides an IP
            address of the next hop router. If the destination is a
            directly connected network, or a router which connects to
            the calculating router via a point-to-point interface, no
            next hop IP address is required. If the destination is a
            router connected to the calculating router via a virtual
            link, the setting of the next hop should be deferred until
            the calculation in Section 16.3.

            In the second case, the parent vertex is a network that
            directly connects the calculating router to the destination
            router.  The list of next hops is then determined by
            examining the destination's router-LSA.  For each link in
            the router-LSA that points back to the parent network, the
            link's Link Data field provides the IP address of a next hop
            router.  The outgoing interface to use can then be derived
            from the next hop IP address (or it can be inherited from
            the parent network).


    16.2.  Calculating the inter-area routes

        The inter-area routes are calculated by examining summary-LSAs.
        If the router has active attachments to multiple areas, only
        backbone summary-LSAs are examined.  Routers attached to a
        single area examine that area's summary-LSAs.  In either case,
        the summary-LSAs examined below are all part of a single area's
        link state database (call it Area A).



Moy                         Standards Track                   [Page 168]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


        Summary-LSAs are originated by the area border routers.  Each
        summary-LSA in Area A is considered in turn.  Remember that the
        destination described by a summary-LSA is either a network (Type
        3 summary-LSAs) or an AS boundary router (Type 4 summary-LSAs).
        For each summary-LSA:


        (1) If the cost specified by the LSA is LSInfinity, or if the
            LSA's LS age is equal to MaxAge, then examine the the next
            LSA.

        (2) If the LSA was originated by the calculating router itself,
            examine the next LSA.

        (3) If it is a Type 3 summary-LSA, and the collection of
            destinations described by the summary-LSA equals one of the
            router's configured area address ranges (see Section 3.5),
            and the particular area address range is active, then the
            summary-LSA should be ignored.  "Active" means that there
            are one or more reachable (by intra-area paths) networks
            contained in the area range.

        (4) Else, call the destination described by the LSA N (for Type
            3 summary-LSAs, N's address is obtained by masking the LSA's
            Link State ID with the network/subnet mask contained in the
            body of the LSA), and the area border originating the LSA
            BR.  Look up the routing table entry for BR having Area A as
            its associated area.  If no such entry exists for router BR
            (i.e., BR is unreachable in Area A), do nothing with this
            LSA and consider the next in the list.  Else, this LSA
            describes an inter-area path to destination N, whose cost is
            the distance to BR plus the cost specified in the LSA. Call
            the cost of this inter-area path IAC.

        (5) Next, look up the routing table entry for the destination N.
            (If N is an AS boundary router, look up the "router" routing
            table entry associated with Area A).  If no entry exists for
            N or if the entry's path type is "type 1 external" or "type
            2 external", then install the inter-area path to N, with
            associated area Area A, cost IAC, next hop equal to the list
            of next hops to router BR, and Advertising router equal to
            BR.



Moy                         Standards Track                   [Page 169]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


        (6) Else, if the paths present in the table are intra-area
            paths, do nothing with the LSA (intra-area paths are always
            preferred).

        (7) Else, the paths present in the routing table are also
            inter-area paths.  Install the new path through BR if it is
            cheaper, overriding the paths in the routing table.
            Otherwise, if the new path is the same cost, add it to the
            list of paths that appear in the routing table entry.

    16.3.  Examining transit areas' summary-LSAs

        This step is only performed by area border routers attached to
        one or more non-backbone areas that are capable of carrying
        transit traffic (i.e., "transit areas", or those areas whose
        TransitCapability parameter has been set to TRUE in Step 2 of
        the Dijkstra algorithm (see Section 16.1).

        The purpose of the calculation below is to examine the transit
        areas to see whether they provide any better (shorter) paths
        than the paths previously calculated in Sections 16.1 and 16.2.
        Any paths found that are better than or equal to previously
        discovered paths are installed in the routing table.

        The calculation also determines the actual next hop(s) for those
        destinations whose next hop was calculated as a virtual link in
        Sections 16.1 and 16.2.  After completion of the calculation
        below, any paths calculated in Sections 16.1 and 16.2 that still
        have unresolved virtual next hops should be discarded.

        The calculation proceeds as follows. All the transit areas'
        summary-LSAs are examined in turn.  Each such summary-LSA
        describes a route through a transit area Area A to a Network N
        (N's address is obtained by masking the LSA's Link State ID with
        the network/subnet mask contained in the body of the LSA) or in
        the case of a Type 4 summary-LSA, to an AS boundary router N.
        Suppose also that the summary-LSA was originated by an area
        border router BR.

        (1) If the cost advertised by the summary-LSA is LSInfinity, or
            if the LSA's LS age is equal to MaxAge, then examine the
            next LSA.



Moy                         Standards Track                   [Page 170]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


        (2) If the summary-LSA was originated by the calculating router
            itself, examine the next LSA.

        (3) Look up the routing table entry for N. (If N is an AS
            boundary router, look up the "router" routing table entry
            associated with the backbone area). If it does not exist, or
            if the route type is other than intra-area or inter-area, or
            if the area associated with the routing table entry is not
            the backbone area, then examine the next LSA. In other
            words, this calculation only updates backbone intra-area
            routes found in Section 16.1 and inter-area routes found in
            Section 16.2.

        (4) Look up the routing table entry for the advertising router
            BR associated with the Area A. If it is unreachable, examine
            the next LSA. Otherwise, the cost to destination N is the
            sum of the cost in BR's Area A routing table entry and the
            cost advertised in the LSA. Call this cost IAC.

        (5) If this cost is less than the cost occurring in N's routing
            table entry, overwrite N's list of next hops with those used
            for BR, and set N's routing table cost to IAC. Else, if IAC
            is the same as N's current cost, add BR's list of next hops
            to N's list of next hops. In any case, the area associated
            with N's routing table entry must remain the backbone area,
            and the path type (either intra-area or inter-area) must
            also remain the same.

        It is important to note that the above calculation never makes
        unreachable destinations reachable, but instead just potentially
        finds better paths to already reachable destinations.  The
        calculation installs any better cost found into the routing
        table entry, from which it may be readvertised in summary-LSAs
        to other areas.

        As an example of the calculation, consider the Autonomous System
        pictured in Figure 17.  There is a single non-backbone area
        (Area 1) that physically divides the backbone into two separate
        pieces. To maintain connectivity of the backbone, a virtual link
        has been configured between routers RT1 and RT4. On the right
        side of the figure, Network N1 belongs to the backbone. The
        dotted lines indicate that there is a much shorter intra-area



Moy                         Standards Track                   [Page 171]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998



                      ........................
                      . Area 1 (transit)     .            +
                      .                      .            |
                      .      +---+1        1+---+100      |
                      .      |RT2|----------|RT4|=========|
                      .    1/+---+********* +---+         |
                      .    /*******          .            |
                      .  1/*Virtual          .            |
                   1+---+/*  Link            .         Net|work
             =======|RT1|*                   .            | N1
                    +---+\                   .            |
                      .   \                  .            |
                      .    \                 .            |
                      .    1\+---+1        1+---+20       |
                      .      |RT3|----------|RT5|=========|
                      .      +---+          +---+         |
                      .                      .            |
                      ........................            +

                    Figure 17: Routing through transit areas

        backbone path between router RT5 and Network N1 (cost 20) than
        there is between Router RT4 and Network N1 (cost 100). Both
        Router RT4 and Router RT5 will inject summary-LSAs for Network
        N1 into Area 1.

        After the shortest-path tree has been calculated for the
        backbone in Section 16.1, Router RT1 (left end of the virtual
        link) will have calculated a path through Router RT4 for all
        data traffic destined for Network N1. However, since Router RT5
        is so much closer to Network N1, all routers internal to Area 1
        (e.g., Routers RT2 and RT3) will forward their Network N1
        traffic towards Router RT5, instead of RT4. And indeed, after
        examining Area 1's summary-LSAs by the above calculation, Router
        RT1 will also forward Network N1 traffic towards RT5. Note that
        in this example the virtual link enables transit data traffic to
        be forwarded through Area 1, but the actual path the transit
        data traffic takes does not follow the virtual link.  In other
        words, virtual links allow transit traffic to be forwarded
        through an area, but do not dictate the precise path that the
        traffic will take.



Moy                         Standards Track                   [Page 172]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


    16.4.  Calculating AS external routes

        AS external routes are calculated by examining AS-external-LSAs.
        Each of the AS-external-LSAs is considered in turn.  Most AS-
        external-LSAs describe routes to specific IP destinations.  An
        AS-external-LSA can also describe a default route for the
        Autonomous System (Destination ID = DefaultDestination,
        network/subnet mask = 0x00000000).  For each AS-external-LSA:


        (1) If the cost specified by the LSA is LSInfinity, or if the
            LSA's LS age is equal to MaxAge, then examine the next LSA.

        (2) If the LSA was originated by the calculating router itself,
            examine the next LSA.

        (3) Call the destination described by the LSA N.  N's address is
            obtained by masking the LSA's Link State ID with the
            network/subnet mask contained in the body of the LSA.  Look
            up the routing table entries (potentially one per attached
            area) for the AS boundary router (ASBR) that originated the
            LSA. If no entries exist for router ASBR (i.e., ASBR is
            unreachable), do nothing with this LSA and consider the next
            in the list.

            Else, this LSA describes an AS external path to destination
            N.  Examine the forwarding address specified in the AS-
            external-LSA.  This indicates the IP address to which
            packets for the destination should be forwarded.

            If the forwarding address is set to 0.0.0.0, packets should
            be sent to the ASBR itself. Among the multiple routing table
            entries for the ASBR, select the preferred entry as follows.
            If RFC1583Compatibility is set to "disabled", prune the set
            of routing table entries for the ASBR as described in
            Section 16.4.1. In any case, among the remaining routing
            table entries, select the routing table entry with the least
            cost; when there are multiple least cost routing table
            entries the entry whose associated area has the largest OSPF
            Area ID (when considered as an unsigned 32-bit integer) is
            chosen.




Moy                         Standards Track                   [Page 173]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


            If the forwarding address is non-zero, look up the
            forwarding address in the routing table.[24] The matching
            routing table entry must specify an intra-area or inter-area
            path; if no such path exists, do nothing with the LSA and
            consider the next in the list.

        (4) Let X be the cost specified by the preferred routing table
            entry for the ASBR/forwarding address, and Y the cost
            specified in the LSA.  X is in terms of the link state
            metric, and Y is a type 1 or 2 external metric.

        (5) Look up the routing table entry for the destination N.  If
            no entry exists for N, install the AS external path to N,
            with next hop equal to the list of next hops to the
            forwarding address, and advertising router equal to ASBR.
            If the external metric type is 1, then the path-type is set
            to type 1 external and the cost is equal to X+Y.  If the
            external metric type is 2, the path-type is set to type 2
            external, the link state component of the route's cost is X,
            and the type 2 cost is Y.

        (6) Compare the AS external path described by the LSA with the
            existing paths in N's routing table entry, as follows. If
            the new path is preferred, it replaces the present paths in
            N's routing table entry.  If the new path is of equal
            preference, it is added to N's routing table entry's list of
            paths.

            (a) Intra-area and inter-area paths are always preferred
                over AS external paths.

            (b) Type 1 external paths are always preferred over type 2
                external paths. When all paths are type 2 external
                paths, the paths with the smallest advertised type 2
                metric are always preferred.

            (c) If the new AS external path is still indistinguishable
                from the current paths in the N's routing table entry,
                and RFC1583Compatibility is set to "disabled", select
                the preferred paths based on the intra-AS paths to the
                ASBR/forwarding addresses, as specified in Section
                16.4.1.



Moy                         Standards Track                   [Page 174]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


            (d) If the new AS external path is still indistinguishable
                from the current paths in the N's routing table entry,
                select the preferred path based on a least cost
                comparison.  Type 1 external paths are compared by
                looking at the sum of the distance to the forwarding
                address and the advertised type 1 metric (X+Y).  Type 2
                external paths advertising equal type 2 metrics are
                compared by looking at the distance to the forwarding
                addresses.

        16.4.1.  External path preferences

            When multiple intra-AS paths are available to
            ASBRs/forwarding addresses, the following rules indicate
            which paths are preferred. These rules apply when the same
            ASBR is reachable through multiple areas, or when trying to
            decide which of several AS-external-LSAs should be
            preferred. In the former case the paths all terminate at the
            same ASBR, while in the latter the paths terminate at
            separate ASBRs/forwarding addresses. In either case, each
            path is represented by a separate routing table entry as
            defined in Section 11.

            This section only applies when RFC1583Compatibility is set
            to "disabled".

            The path preference rules, stated from highest to lowest
            preference, are as follows. Note that as a result of these
            rules, there may still be multiple paths of the highest
            preference. In this case, the path to use must be determined
            based on cost, as described in Section 16.4.

            o   Intra-area paths using non-backbone areas are always the
                most preferred.

            o   The other paths, intra-area backbone paths and inter-
                area paths, are of equal preference.

    16.5.  Incremental updates -- summary-LSAs

        When a new summary-LSA is received, it is not necessary to
        recalculate the entire routing table.  Call the destination



Moy                         Standards Track                   [Page 175]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


        described by the summary-LSA N (N's address is obtained by
        masking the LSA's Link State ID with the network/subnet mask
        contained in the body of the LSA), and let Area A be the area to
        which the LSA belongs. There are then two separate cases:

        Case 1: Area A is the backbone and/or the router is not an area
            border router.
            In this case, the following calculations must be performed.
            First, if there is presently an inter-area route to the
            destination N, N's routing table entry is invalidated,
            saving the entry's values for later comparisons. Then the
            calculation in Section 16.2 is run again for the single
            destination N. In this calculation, all of Area A's
            summary-LSAs that describe a route to N are examined.  In
            addition, if the router is an area border router attached to
            one or more transit areas, the calculation in Section 16.3
            must be run again for the single destination.  If the
            results of these calculations have changed the cost/path to
            an AS boundary router (as would be the case for a Type 4
            summary-LSA) or to any forwarding addresses, all AS-
            external-LSAs will have to be reexamined by rerunning the
            calculation in Section 16.4.  Otherwise, if N is now newly
            unreachable, the calculation in Section 16.4 must be rerun
            for the single destination N, in case an alternate external
            route to N exists.

        Case 2: Area A is a transit area and the router is an area
            border router.
            In this case, the following calculations must be performed.
            First, if N's routing table entry presently contains one or
            more inter-area paths that utilize the transit area Area A,
            these paths should be removed. If this removes all paths
            from the routing table entry, the entry should be
            invalidated.  The entry's old values should be saved for
            later comparisons. Next the calculation in Section 16.3 must
            be run again for the single destination N. If the results of
            this calculation have caused the cost to N to increase, the
            complete routing table calculation must be rerun starting
            with the Dijkstra algorithm specified in Section 16.1.
            Otherwise, if the cost/path to an AS boundary router (as
            would be the case for a Type 4 summary-LSA) or to any
            forwarding addresses has changed, all AS-external-LSAs will



Moy                         Standards Track                   [Page 176]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


            have to be reexamined by rerunning the calculation in
            Section 16.4.  Otherwise, if N is now newly unreachable, the
            calculation in Section 16.4 must be rerun for the single
            destination N, in case an alternate external route to N
            exists.

    16.6.  Incremental updates -- AS-external-LSAs

        When a new AS-external-LSA is received, it is not necessary to
        recalculate the entire routing table.  Call the destination
        described by the AS-external-LSA N.  N's address is obtained by
        masking the LSA's Link State ID with the network/subnet mask
        contained in the body of the LSA. If there is already an intra-
        area or inter-area route to the destination, no recalculation is
        necessary (internal routes take precedence).

        Otherwise, the procedure in Section 16.4 will have to be
        performed, but only for those AS-external-LSAs whose destination
        is N.  Before this procedure is performed, the present routing
        table entry for N should be invalidated.

    16.7.  Events generated as a result of routing table changes

        Changes to routing table entries sometimes cause the OSPF area
        border routers to take additional actions.  These routers need
        to act on the following routing table changes:

        o   The cost or path type of a routing table entry has changed.
            If the destination described by this entry is a Network or
            AS boundary router, and this is not simply a change of AS
            external routes, new summary-LSAs may have to be generated
            (potentially one for each attached area, including the
            backbone).  See Section 12.4.3 for more information.  If a
            previously advertised entry has been deleted, or is no
            longer advertisable to a particular area, the LSA must be
            flushed from the routing domain by setting its LS age to
            MaxAge and reflooding (see Section 14.1).

        o   A routing table entry associated with a configured virtual
            link has changed.  The destination of such a routing table
            entry is an area border router.  The change indicates a
            modification to the virtual link's cost or viability.



Moy                         Standards Track                   [Page 177]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


            If the entry indicates that the area border router is newly
            reachable, the corresponding virtual link is now
            operational.  An InterfaceUp event should be generated for
            the virtual link, which will cause a virtual adjacency to
            begin to form (see Section 10.3).  At this time the virtual
            link's IP interface address and the virtual neighbor's
            Neighbor IP address are also calculated.

            If the entry indicates that the area border router is no
            longer reachable, the virtual link and its associated
            adjacency should be destroyed.  This means an InterfaceDown
            event should be generated for the associated virtual link.

            If the cost of the entry has changed, and there is a fully
            established virtual adjacency, a new router-LSA for the
            backbone must be originated.  This in turn may cause further
            routing table changes.

    16.8.  Equal-cost multipath

        The OSPF protocol maintains multiple equal-cost routes to all
        destinations.  This can be seen in the steps used above to
        calculate the routing table, and in the definition of the
        routing table structure.

        Each one of the multiple routes will be of the same type
        (intra-area, inter-area, type 1 external or type 2 external),
        cost, and will have the same associated area.  However, each
        route may specify a separate next hop and Advertising router.

        There is no requirement that a router running OSPF keep track of
        all possible equal-cost routes to a destination.  An
        implementation may choose to keep only a fixed number of routes
        to any given destination.  This does not affect any of the
        algorithms presented in this specification.










Moy                         Standards Track                   [Page 178]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


Footnotes


    [1]The graph's vertices represent either routers, transit networks,
    or stub networks.  Since routers may belong to multiple areas, it is
    not possible to color the graph's vertices.

    [2]It is possible for all of a router's interfaces to be unnumbered
    point-to-point links.  In this case, an IP address must be assigned
    to the router.  This address will then be advertised in the router's
    router-LSA as a host route.

    [3]Note that in these cases both interfaces, the non-virtual and the
    virtual, would have the same IP address.

    [4]Note that no host route is generated for, and no IP packets can
    be addressed to, interfaces to unnumbered point-to-point networks.
    This is regardless of such an interface's state.

    [5]It is instructive to see what happens when the Designated Router
    for the network crashes.  Call the Designated Router for the network
    RT1, and the Backup Designated Router RT2.  If Router RT1 crashes
    (or maybe its interface to the network dies), the other routers on
    the network will detect RT1's absence within RouterDeadInterval
    seconds.  All routers may not detect this at precisely the same
    time; the routers that detect RT1's absence before RT2 does will,
    for a time, select RT2 to be both Designated Router and Backup
    Designated Router.  When RT2 detects that RT1 is gone it will move
    itself to Designated Router.  At this time, the remaining router
    having highest Router Priority will be selected as Backup Designated
    Router.

    [6]On point-to-point networks, the lower level protocols indicate
    whether the neighbor is up and running.  Likewise, existence of the
    neighbor on virtual links is indicated by the routing table
    calculation.  However, in both these cases, the Hello Protocol is
    still used.  This ensures that communication between the neighbors
    is bidirectional, and that each of the neighbors has a functioning
    routing protocol layer.

    [7]When the identity of the Designated Router is changing, it may be
    quite common for a neighbor in this state to send the router a



Moy                         Standards Track                   [Page 179]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


    Database Description packet; this means that there is some momentary
    disagreement on the Designated Router's identity.

    [8]Note that it is possible for a router to resynchronize any of its
    fully established adjacencies by setting the adjacency's state back
    to ExStart.  This will cause the other end of the adjacency to
    process a SeqNumberMismatch event, and therefore to also go back to
    ExStart state.

    [9]The address space of IP networks and the address space of OSPF
    Router IDs may overlap.  That is, a network may have an IP address
    which is identical (when considered as a 32-bit number) to some
    router's Router ID.

    [10]"Discard" entries are necessary to ensure that route
    summarization at area boundaries will not cause packet looping.

    [11]It is assumed that, for two different address ranges matching
    the destination, one range is more specific than the other. Non-
    contiguous subnet masks can be configured to violate this
    assumption. Such subnet mask configurations cannot be handled by the
    OSPF protocol.

    [12]MaxAgeDiff is an architectural constant.  It indicates the
    maximum dispersion of ages, in seconds, that can occur for a single
    LSA instance as it is flooded throughout the routing domain.  If two
    LSAs differ by more than this, they are assumed to be different
    instances of the same LSA.  This can occur when a router restarts
    and loses track of the LSA's previous LS sequence number.  See
    Section 13.4 for more details.

    [13]When two LSAs have different LS checksums, they are assumed to
    be separate instances.  This can occur when a router restarts, and
    loses track of the LSA's previous LS sequence number.  In the case
    where the two LSAs have the same LS sequence number, it is not
    possible to determine which LSA is actually newer.  However, if the
    wrong LSA is accepted as newer, the originating router will simply
    originate another instance.  See Section 13.4 for further details.

    [14]There is one instance where a lookup must be done based on
    partial information.  This is during the routing table calculation,
    when a network-LSA must be found based solely on its Link State ID.



Moy                         Standards Track                   [Page 180]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


    The lookup in this case is still well defined, since no two
    network-LSAs can have the same Link State ID.

    [15]This is the way RFC 1583 specified point-to-point
    representation.  It has three advantages: a) it does not require
    allocating a subnet to the point-to-point link, b) it tends to bias
    the routing so that packets destined for the point-to-point
    interface will actually be received over the interface (which is
    useful for diagnostic purposes) and c) it allows network
    bootstrapping of a neighbor, without requiring that the bootstrap
    program contain an OSPF implementation.

    [16]This is the more traditional point-to-point representation used
    by protocols such as RIP.

    [17]This clause covers the case: Inter-area routes are not
    summarized to the backbone.  This is because inter-area routes are
    always associated with the backbone area.

    [18]This clause is only invoked when a non-backbone Area A supports
    transit data traffic (i.e., has TransitCapability set to TRUE).  For
    example, in the area configuration of Figure 6, Area 2 can support
    transit traffic due to the configured virtual link between Routers
    RT10 and RT11. As a result, Router RT11 need only originate a single
    summary-LSA into Area 2 (having the collapsed destination N9-
    N11,H1), since all of Router RT11's other eligible routes have next
    hops belonging to Area 2 itself (and as such only need be advertised
    by other area border routers; in this case, Routers RT10 and RT7).

    [19]By keeping more information in the routing table, it is possible
    for an implementation to recalculate the shortest path tree for only
    a single area.  In fact, there are incremental algorithms that allow
    an implementation to recalculate only a portion of a single area's
    shortest path tree [Ref1].  However, these algorithms are beyond the
    scope of this specification.

    [20]This is how the Link state request list is emptied, which
    eventually causes the neighbor state to transition to Full.  See
    Section 10.9 for more details.

    [21]It should be a relatively rare occurrence for an LSA's LS age to
    reach MaxAge in this fashion.  Usually, the LSA will be replaced by



Moy                         Standards Track                   [Page 181]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


    a more recent instance before it ages out.

    [22]Strictly speaking, because of equal-cost multipath, the
    algorithm does not create a tree.  We continue to use the "tree"
    terminology because that is what occurs most often in the existing
    literature.

    [23]Note that the presence of any link back to V is sufficient; it
    need not be the matching half of the link under consideration from V
    to W. This is enough to ensure that, before data traffic flows
    between a pair of neighboring routers, their link state databases
    will be synchronized.

    [24]When the forwarding address is non-zero, it should point to a
    router belonging to another Autonomous System.  See Section 12.4.4
    for more details.





























Moy                         Standards Track                   [Page 182]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


References

    [Ref1]  McQuillan, J., I. Richer and E. Rosen, "ARPANET Routing
            Algorithm Improvements", BBN Technical Report 3803, April
            1978.

    [Ref2]  Digital Equipment Corporation, "Information processing
            systems -- Data communications -- Intermediate System to
            Intermediate System Intra-Domain Routing Protocol", October
            1987.

    [Ref3]  McQuillan, J., et.al., "The New Routing Algorithm for the
            ARPANET", IEEE Transactions on Communications, May 1980.

    [Ref4]  Perlman, R., "Fault-Tolerant Broadcast of Routing
            Information", Computer Networks, December 1983.

    [Ref5]  Postel, J., "Internet Protocol", STD 5, RFC 791, September
            1981.

    [Ref6]  McKenzie, A., "ISO Transport Protocol specification ISO DP
            8073", RFC 905, April 1984.

    [Ref7]  Deering, S., "Host extensions for IP multicasting", STD 5,
            RFC 1112, May 1988.

    [Ref8]  McCloghrie, K., and M. Rose, "Management Information Base
            for network management of TCP/IP-based internets: MIB-II",
            STD 17, RFC 1213, March 1991.

    [Ref9]  Moy, J., "OSPF Version 2", RFC 1583, March 1994.

    [Ref10] Fuller, V., T. Li, J. Yu, and K. Varadhan, "Classless
            Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR): an Address Assignment and
            Aggregation Strategy", RFC1519, September 1993.

    [Ref11] Reynolds, J., and J. Postel, "Assigned Numbers", STD 2, RFC
            1700, October 1994.

    [Ref12] Almquist, P., "Type of Service in the Internet Protocol
            Suite", RFC 1349, July 1992.




Moy                         Standards Track                   [Page 183]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


    [Ref13] Leiner, B., et.al., "The DARPA Internet Protocol Suite", DDN
            Protocol Handbook, April 1985.

    [Ref14] Bradley, T., and C. Brown, "Inverse Address Resolution
            Protocol", RFC 1293, January 1992.

    [Ref15] deSouza, O., and M. Rodrigues, "Guidelines for Running OSPF
            Over Frame Relay Networks", RFC 1586, March 1994.

    [Ref16] Bellovin, S., "Security Problems in the TCP/IP Protocol
            Suite", ACM Computer Communications Review, Volume 19,
            Number 2, pp. 32-38, April 1989.

    [Ref17] Rivest, R., "The MD5 Message-Digest Algorithm", RFC 1321,
            April 1992.

    [Ref18] Moy, J., "Multicast Extensions to OSPF", RFC 1584, March
            1994.

    [Ref19] Coltun, R., and V. Fuller, "The OSPF NSSA Option", RFC 1587,
            March 1994.

    [Ref20] Ferguson, D., "The OSPF External Attributes LSA", work in
            progress.

    [Ref21] Moy, J., "Extending OSPF to Support Demand Circuits", RFC
            1793, April 1995.

    [Ref22] Mogul, J., and S. Deering, "Path MTU Discovery", RFC 1191,
            November 1990.

    [Ref23] Rekhter, Y., and T. Li, "A Border Gateway Protocol 4 (BGP-
            4)", RFC 1771, March 1995.

    [Ref24] Hinden, R., "Internet Routing Protocol Standardization
            Criteria", BBN, October 1991.

    [Ref25] Moy, J., "OSPF Version 2", RFC 2178, July 1997.

    [Ref26] Rosen, E., "Vulnerabilities of Network Control Protocols: An
            Example", Computer Communication Review, July 1981.




Moy                         Standards Track                   [Page 184]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


