C. Configurable Constants

    The OSPF protocol has quite a few configurable parameters.  These
    parameters are listed below.  They are grouped into general
    functional categories (area parameters, interface parameters, etc.).
    Sample values are given for some of the parameters.

    Some parameter settings need to be consistent among groups of
    routers.  For example, all routers in an area must agree on that
    area's parameters, and all routers attached to a network must agree
    on that network's IP network number and mask.

    Some parameters may be determined by router algorithms outside of
    this specification (e.g., the address of a host connected to the
    router via a SLIP line).  From OSPF's point of view, these items are
    still configurable.

    C.1 Global parameters

        In general, a separate copy of the OSPF protocol is run for each
        area.  Because of this, most configuration parameters are
        defined on a per-area basis.  The few global configuration
        parameters are listed below.


        Router ID
            This is a 32-bit number that uniquely identifies the router
            in the Autonomous System.  One algorithm for Router ID
            assignment is to choose the largest or smallest IP address
            assigned to the router.  If a router's OSPF Router ID is
            changed, the router's OSPF software should be restarted
            before the new Router ID takes effect. Before restarting in
            order to change its Router ID, the router should flush its
            self-originated LSAs from the routing domain (see Section
            14.1), or they will persist for up to MaxAge minutes.

        RFC1583Compatibility
            Controls the preference rules used in Section 16.4 when
            choosing among multiple AS-external-LSAs advertising the
            same destination. When set to "enabled", the preference
            rules remain those specified by RFC 1583 ([Ref9]). When set
            to "disabled", the preference rules are those stated in



Moy                         Standards Track                   [Page 219]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


            Section 16.4.1, which prevent routing loops when AS-
            external-LSAs for the same destination have been originated
            from different areas. Set to "enabled" by default.

            In order to minimize the chance of routing loops, all OSPF
            routers in an OSPF routing domain should have
            RFC1583Compatibility set identically. When there are routers
            present that have not been updated with the functionality
            specified in Section 16.4.1 of this memo, all routers should
            have RFC1583Compatibility set to "enabled". Otherwise, all
            routers should have RFC1583Compatibility set to "disabled",
            preventing all routing loops.

    C.2 Area parameters

        All routers belonging to an area must agree on that area's
        configuration.  Disagreements between two routers will lead to
        an inability for adjacencies to form between them, with a
        resulting hindrance to the flow of routing protocol and data
        traffic.  The following items must be configured for an area:


        Area ID
            This is a 32-bit number that identifies the area.  The Area
            ID of 0.0.0.0 is reserved for the backbone.  If the area
            represents a subnetted network, the IP network number of the
            subnetted network may be used for the Area ID.

        List of address ranges
            An OSPF area is defined as a list of address ranges. Each
            address range consists of the following items:

            [IP address, mask]
                    Describes the collection of IP addresses contained
                    in the address range. Networks and hosts are
                    assigned to an area depending on whether their
                    addresses fall into one of the area's defining
                    address ranges.  Routers are viewed as belonging to
                    multiple areas, depending on their attached
                    networks' area membership.





Moy                         Standards Track                   [Page 220]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


            Status  Set to either Advertise or DoNotAdvertise.  Routing
                    information is condensed at area boundaries.
                    External to the area, at most a single route is
                    advertised (via a summary-LSA) for each address
                    range. The route is advertised if and only if the
                    address range's Status is set to Advertise.
                    Unadvertised ranges allow the existence of certain
                    networks to be intentionally hidden from other
                    areas. Status is set to Advertise by default.

            As an example, suppose an IP subnetted network is to be its
            own OSPF area.  The area would be configured as a single
            address range, whose IP address is the address of the
            subnetted network, and whose mask is the natural class A, B,
            or C address mask.  A single route would be advertised
            external to the area, describing the entire subnetted
            network.

        ExternalRoutingCapability
            Whether AS-external-LSAs will be flooded into/throughout the
            area.  If AS-external-LSAs are excluded from the area, the
            area is called a "stub".  Internal to stub areas, routing to
            external destinations will be based solely on a default
            summary route.  The backbone cannot be configured as a stub
            area.  Also, virtual links cannot be configured through stub
            areas.  For more information, see Section 3.6.

        StubDefaultCost
            If the area has been configured as a stub area, and the
            router itself is an area border router, then the
            StubDefaultCost indicates the cost of the default summary-
            LSA that the router should advertise into the area.

    C.3 Router interface parameters

        Some of the configurable router interface parameters (such as IP
        interface address and subnet mask) actually imply properties of
        the attached networks, and therefore must be consistent across
        all the routers attached to that network.  The parameters that
        must be configured for a router interface are:





Moy                         Standards Track                   [Page 221]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


        IP interface address
            The IP protocol address for this interface.  This uniquely
            identifies the router over the entire internet.  An IP
            address is not required on point-to-point networks.  Such a
            point-to-point network is called "unnumbered".

        IP interface mask
            Also referred to as the subnet/network mask, this indicates
            the portion of the IP interface address that identifies the
            attached network.  Masking the IP interface address with the
            IP interface mask yields the IP network number of the
            attached network.  On point-to-point networks and virtual
            links, the IP interface mask is not defined. On these
            networks, the link itself is not assigned an IP network
            number, and so the addresses of each side of the link are
            assigned independently, if they are assigned at all.

        Area ID
            The OSPF area to which the attached network belongs.

        Interface output cost
            The cost of sending a packet on the interface, expressed in
            the link state metric.  This is advertised as the link cost
            for this interface in the router's router-LSA. The interface
            output cost must always be greater than 0.

        RxmtInterval
            The number of seconds between LSA retransmissions, for
            adjacencies belonging to this interface.  Also used when
            retransmitting Database Description and Link State Request
            Packets.  This should be well over the expected round-trip
            delay between any two routers on the attached network.  The
            setting of this value should be conservative or needless
            retransmissions will result.  Sample value for a local area
            network: 5 seconds.

        InfTransDelay
            The estimated number of seconds it takes to transmit a Link
            State Update Packet over this interface.  LSAs contained in
            the update packet must have their age incremented by this
            amount before transmission.  This value should take into
            account the transmission and propagation delays of the



Moy                         Standards Track                   [Page 222]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


            interface.  It must be greater than 0.  Sample value for a
            local area network: 1 second.

        Router Priority
            An 8-bit unsigned integer.  When two routers attached to a
            network both attempt to become Designated Router, the one
            with the highest Router Priority takes precedence.  If there
            is still a tie, the router with the highest Router ID takes
            precedence.  A router whose Router Priority is set to 0 is
            ineligible to become Designated Router on the attached
            network.  Router Priority is only configured for interfaces
            to broadcast and NBMA networks.

        HelloInterval
            The length of time, in seconds, between the Hello Packets
            that the router sends on the interface.  This value is
            advertised in the router's Hello Packets.  It must be the
            same for all routers attached to a common network.  The
            smaller the HelloInterval, the faster topological changes
            will be detected; however, more OSPF routing protocol
            traffic will ensue.  Sample value for a X.25 PDN network: 30
            seconds.  Sample value for a local area network: 10 seconds.

        RouterDeadInterval
            After ceasing to hear a router's Hello Packets, the number
            of seconds before its neighbors declare the router down.
            This is also advertised in the router's Hello Packets in
            their RouterDeadInterval field.  This should be some
            multiple of the HelloInterval (say 4).  This value again
            must be the same for all routers attached to a common
            network.

        AuType
            Identifies the authentication procedure to be used on the
            attached network.  This value must be the same for all
            routers attached to the network.  See Appendix D for a
            discussion of the defined authentication types.

        Authentication key
            This configured data allows the authentication procedure to
            verify OSPF protocol packets received over the interface.
            For example, if the AuType indicates simple password, the



Moy                         Standards Track                   [Page 223]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


            Authentication key would be a clear 64-bit password.
            Authentication keys associated with the other OSPF
            authentication types are discussed in Appendix D.

    C.4 Virtual link parameters

        Virtual links are used to restore/increase connectivity of the
        backbone.  Virtual links may be configured between any pair of
        area border routers having interfaces to a common (non-backbone)
        area.  The virtual link appears as an unnumbered point-to-point
        link in the graph for the backbone.  The virtual link must be
        configured in both of the area border routers.

        A virtual link appears in router-LSAs (for the backbone) as if
        it were a separate router interface to the backbone.  As such,
        it has all of the parameters associated with a router interface
        (see Section C.3).  Although a virtual link acts like an
        unnumbered point-to-point link, it does have an associated IP
        interface address.  This address is used as the IP source in
        OSPF protocol packets it sends along the virtual link, and is
        set dynamically during the routing table build process.
        Interface output cost is also set dynamically on virtual links
        to be the cost of the intra-area path between the two routers.
        The parameter RxmtInterval must be configured, and should be
        well over the expected round-trip delay between the two routers.
        This may be hard to estimate for a virtual link; it is better to
        err on the side of making it too large.  Router Priority is not
        used on virtual links.

        A virtual link is defined by the following two configurable
        parameters: the Router ID of the virtual link's other endpoint,
        and the (non-backbone) area through which the virtual link runs
        (referred to as the virtual link's Transit area).  Virtual links
        cannot be configured through stub areas.

    C.5 NBMA network parameters

        OSPF treats an NBMA network much like it treats a broadcast
        network.  Since there may be many routers attached to the
        network, a Designated Router is selected for the network.  This
        Designated Router then originates a network-LSA, which lists all
        routers attached to the NBMA network.



Moy                         Standards Track                   [Page 224]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


        However, due to the lack of broadcast capabilities, it may be
        necessary to use configuration parameters in the Designated
        Router selection.  These parameters will only need to be
        configured in those routers that are themselves eligible to
        become Designated Router (i.e., those router's whose Router
        Priority for the network is non-zero), and then only if no
        automatic procedure for discovering neighbors exists:


        List of all other attached routers
            The list of all other routers attached to the NBMA network.
            Each router is listed by its IP interface address on the
            network.  Also, for each router listed, that router's
            eligibility to become Designated Router must be defined.
            When an interface to a NBMA network comes up, the router
            sends Hello Packets only to those neighbors eligible to
            become Designated Router, until the identity of the
            Designated Router is discovered.

        PollInterval
            If a neighboring router has become inactive (Hello Packets
            have not been seen for RouterDeadInterval seconds), it may
            still be necessary to send Hello Packets to the dead
            neighbor.  These Hello Packets will be sent at the reduced
            rate PollInterval, which should be much larger than
            HelloInterval.  Sample value for a PDN X.25 network: 2
            minutes.

    C.6 Point-to-MultiPoint network parameters

        On Point-to-MultiPoint networks, it may be necessary to
        configure the set of neighbors that are directly reachable over
        the Point-to-MultiPoint network. Each neighbor is identified by
        its IP address on the Point-to-MultiPoint network. Designated
        Routers are not elected on Point-to-MultiPoint networks, so the
        Designated Router eligibility of configured neighbors is
        undefined.

        Alternatively, neighbors on Point-to-MultiPoint networks may be
        dynamically discovered by lower-level protocols such as Inverse
        ARP ([Ref14]).




Moy                         Standards Track                   [Page 225]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


    C.7 Host route parameters

        Host routes are advertised in router-LSAs as stub networks with
        mask 0xffffffff.  They indicate either router interfaces to
        point-to-point networks, looped router interfaces, or IP hosts
        that are directly connected to the router (e.g., via a SLIP
        line).  For each host directly connected to the router, the
        following items must be configured:


        Host IP address
            The IP address of the host.

        Cost of link to host
            The cost of sending a packet to the host, in terms of the
            link state metric.  However, since the host probably has
            only a single connection to the internet, the actual
            configured cost in many cases is unimportant (i.e., will
            have no effect on routing).

        Area ID
            The OSPF area to which the host belongs.























Moy                         Standards Track                   [Page 226]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


