F. Multiple interfaces to the same network/subnet

    There are at least two ways to support multiple physical interfaces
    to the same IP subnet. Both methods will interoperate with
    implementations of RFC 1583 (and of course this memo). The two
    methods are sketched briefly below. An assumption has been made that
    each interface has been assigned a separate IP address (otherwise,
    support for multiple interfaces is more of a link-level or ARP issue
    than an OSPF issue).

    Method 1:
        Run the entire OSPF functionality over both interfaces, sending
        and receiving hellos, flooding, supporting separate interface
        and neighbor FSMs for each interface, etc. When doing this all
        other routers on the subnet will treat the two interfaces as
        separate neighbors, since neighbors are identified (on broadcast
        and NBMA networks) by their IP address.

        Method 1 has the following disadvantages:

        (1) You increase the total number of neighbors and adjacencies.

        (2) You lose the bidirectionality test on both interfaces, since
            bidirectionality is based on Router ID.

        (3) You have to consider both interfaces together during the
            Designated Router election, since if you declare both to be
            DR simultaneously you can confuse the tie-breaker (which is
            Router ID).

    Method 2:
        Run OSPF over only one interface (call it the primary
        interface), but include both the primary and secondary
        interfaces in your Router-LSA.

        Method 2 has the following disadvantages:

        (1) You lose the bidirectionality test on the secondary
            interface.

        (2) When the primary interface fails, you need to promote the
            secondary interface to primary status.



Moy                         Standards Track                   [Page 239]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


