G. Differences from RFC 2178

    This section documents the differences between this memo and RFC
    2178.  All differences are backward-compatible. Implementations of
    this memo and of RFCs 2178, 1583, and 1247 will interoperate.

    G.1 Flooding modifications

        Three changes have been made to the flooding procedure in
        Section 13.

        The first change is to step 4 in Section 13. Now MaxAge LSAs are
        acknowledged and then discarded only when both a) there is no
        database copy of the LSA and b) none of router's neighbors are
        in states Exchange or Loading. In all other cases, the MaxAge
        LSA is processed like any other LSA, installing the LSA in the
        database and flooding it out the appropriate interfaces when the
        LSA is more recent than the database copy (Step 5 of Section
        13). This change also affects the contents of Table 19.

        The second change is to step 5a in Section 13. The MinLSArrival
        check is meant only for LSAs received during flooding, and
        should not be performed on those LSAs that the router itself
        originates.

        The third change is to step 8 in Section 13. Confusion between
        routers as to which LSA instance is more recent can cause a
        disastrous amount of flooding in a link-state protocol (see
        [Ref26]). OSPF guards against this problem in two ways: a) the
        LS age field is used like a TTL field in flooding, to eventually
        remove looping LSAs from the network (see Section 13.3), and b)
        routers refuse to accept LSA updates more frequently than once
        every MinLSArrival seconds (see Section 13).  However, there is
        still one case in RFC 2178 where disagreements regarding which
        LSA is more recent can cause a lot of flooding traffic:
        responding to old LSAs by reflooding the database copy.  For
        this reason, Step 8 of Section 13 has been amended to only
        respond with the database copy when that copy has not been sent
        in any Link State Update within the last MinLSArrival seconds.






Moy                         Standards Track                   [Page 240]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


    G.2 Changes to external path preferences

        There is still the possibility of a routing loop in RFC 2178
        when both a) virtual links are in use and b) the same external
        route is being imported by multiple ASBRs, each of which is in a
        separate area. To fix this problem, Section 16.4.1 has been
        revised. To choose the correct ASBR/forwarding address, intra-
        area paths through non-backbone areas are always preferred.
        However, intra-area paths through the backbone area (Area 0) and
        inter-area paths are now of equal preference, and must be
        compared solely based on cost.

        The reasoning behind this change is as follows. When virtual
        links are in use, an intra-area backbone path for one router can
        turn into an inter-area path in a router several hops closer to
        the destination. Hence, intra-area backbone paths and inter-area
        paths must be of equal preference. We can safely compare their
        costs, preferring the path with the smallest cost, due to the
        calculations in Section 16.3.

        Thanks to Michael Briggs and Jeremy McCooey of the UNH
        InterOperability Lab for pointing out this problem.

    G.3 Incomplete resolution of virtual next hops

        One of the functions of the calculation in Section 16.3 is to
        determine the actual next hop(s) for those destinations whose
        next hop was calculated as a virtual link in Sections 16.1 and
        16.2.  After completion of the calculation in Section 16.3, any
        paths calculated in Sections 16.1 and 16.2 that still have
        unresolved virtual next hops should be discarded.

    G.4 Routing table lookup

        The routing table lookup algorithm in Section 11.1 has been
        modified to reflect current practice. The "best match" routing
        table entry is now always selected to be the one providing the
        most specific (longest) match. Suppose for example a router is
        forwarding packets to the destination 192.9.1.1. A routing table
        entry for 192.9.1/24 will always be a better match than the
        routing table entry for 192.9/16, regardless of the routing
        table entries' path-types. Note however that when multiple paths



Moy                         Standards Track                   [Page 241]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


        are available for a given routing table entry, the calculations
        in Sections 16.1, 16.2, and 16.4 always yield the paths having
        the most preferential path-type. (Intra-area paths are the most
        preferred, followed in order by inter-area, type 1 external and
        type 2 external paths; see Section 11).








































Moy                         Standards Track                   [Page 242]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


Security Considerations

    All OSPF protocol exchanges are authenticated. OSPF supports
    multiple types of authentication; the type of authentication in use
    can be configured on a per network segment basis. One of OSPF's
    authentication types, namely the Cryptographic authentication
    option, is believed to be secure against passive attacks and provide
    significant protection against active attacks. When using the
    Cryptographic authentication option, each router appends a "message
    digest" to its transmitted OSPF packets. Receivers then use the
    shared secret key and received digest to verify that each received
    OSPF packet is authentic.

    The quality of the security provided by the Cryptographic
    authentication option depends completely on the strength of the
    message digest algorithm (MD5 is currently the only message digest
    algorithm specified), the strength of the key being used, and the
    correct implementation of the security mechanism in all
    communicating OSPF implementations.  It also requires that all
    parties maintain the secrecy of the shared secret key.

    None of the OSPF authentication types provide confidentiality. Nor
    do they protect against traffic analysis. Key management is also not
    addressed by this memo.

    For more information, see Sections 8.1, 8.2, and Appendix D.

Author's Address

    John Moy
    Ascend Communications, Inc.
    1 Robbins Road
    Westford, MA 01886

    Phone: 978-952-1367
    Fax:   978-392-2075
    EMail: jmoy@casc.com








Moy                         Standards Track                   [Page 243]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


Full Copyright Statement

    Copyright (C) The Internet Society (1998).  All Rights Reserved.

    This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to
    others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it
    or assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published
    and distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any
    kind, provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph
    are included on all such copies and derivative works.  However, this
    document itself may not be modified in any way, such as by removing
    the copyright notice or references to the Internet Society or other
    Internet organizations, except as needed for the purpose of
    developing Internet standards in which case the procedures for
    copyrights defined in the Internet Standards process must be
    followed, or as required to translate it into languages other than
    English.

    The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be
    revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or assigns.

    This document and the information contained herein is provided on an
    "AS IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET ENGINEERING
    TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING
    BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION
    HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
    MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.


















Moy                         Standards Track                   [Page 244]

