ADJTIME_CONFIG(5)                                                                      File Formats                                                                     ADJTIME_CONFIG(5)

NAME
       adjtime - information about hardware clock setting and drift factor

SYNOPSIS
       /etc/adjtime

DESCRIPTION
       The  file /etc/adjtime contains descriptive information about the hardware mode clock setting and clock drift factor.  The file is read and write by hwclock; and read by programs
       like rtcwake to get RTC time mode.

       The file is usually located in /etc, but tools like hwclock(8) or rtcwake(8) allow to use alternative location by command line options if write access to /etc is  unwanted.   The
       default clock mode is "UTC" if the file is missing.

       The Hardware Clock is usually not very accurate.  However, much of its inaccuracy is completely predictable - it gains or loses the same amount of time every day.  This is called
       systematic drift.  The util hwclock keeps the file /etc/adjtime, that keeps some historical information.  For more details see "The Adjust Function" and  "The Adjtime File"  sec-
       tions from hwckock(8) man page.

       The format of the adjtime file is, in ASCII.

   First line
       Three numbers, separated by blanks:

       drift factor
              the systematic drift rate in seconds per day (floating point decimal)

       last adjust time
              the resulting number of seconds since  1969  UTC  of  most recent adjustment or calibration (decimal integer)

       adjustment status
              zero (for compatibility with clock(8)) as a decimal integer.

   Second line
       last calibration time
              The  resulting number of seconds since 1969 UTC of most recent calibration.  Zero if there has been no calibration yet or it is known that any previous calibration is moot
              (for example, because the Hardware Clock has been found, since that calibration, not to contain a valid time).  This is a decimal integer.

   Third line
       clock mode
              Supported values are "UTC" or "LOCAL".  Tells whether the Hardware Clock is set to Coordinated Universal Time or local time.  You  can  always  override  this  value  with
              options on the hwclock command line.

FILES
       /etc/adjtime

SEE ALSO
       hwclock(8), rtcwake(8)

AVAILABILITY
       This man page is part of the util-linux package and is available from https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.

util-linux                                                                             August 2018                                                                      ADJTIME_CONFIG(5)
