3. Specifications for the protocol

   RIP is intended to allow hosts and gateways to exchange information
   for computing routes through an IP-based network.  RIP is a distance
   vector protocol.  Thus, it has the general features described in
   section 2.  RIP may be implemented by both hosts and gateways.  As in
   most IP documentation, the term "host" will be used here to cover
   either.  RIP is used to convey information about routes to
   "destinations", which may be individual hosts, networks, or a special
   destination used to convey a default route.




Hedrick                                                        [Page 16]

RFC 1058              Routing Information Protocol             June 1988


   Any host that uses RIP is assumed to have interfaces to one or more
   networks.  These are referred to as its "directly-connected
   networks".  The protocol relies on access to certain information
   about each of these networks.  The most important is its metric or
   "cost".  The metric of a network is an integer between 1 and 15
   inclusive.  It is set in some manner not specified in this protocol.
   Most existing implementations always use a metric of 1.  New
   implementations should allow the system administrator to set the cost
   of each network.  In addition to the cost, each network will have an
   IP network number and a subnet mask associated with it.  These are to
   be set by the system administrator in a manner not specified in this
   protocol.

   Note that the rules specified in section 3.2 assume that there is a
   single subnet mask applying to each IP network, and that only the
   subnet masks for directly-connected networks are known.  There may be
   systems that use different subnet masks for different subnets within
   a single network.  There may also be instances where it is desirable
   for a system to know the subnets masks of distant networks.  However,
   such situations will require modifications of the rules which govern
   the spread of subnet information.  Such modifications raise issues of
   interoperability, and thus must be viewed as modifying the protocol.

   Each host that implements RIP is assumed to have a routing table.
   This table has one entry for every destination that is reachable
   through the system described by RIP.  Each entry contains at least
   the following information:

      - The IP address of the destination.

      - A metric, which represents the total cost of getting a
        datagram from the host to that destination.  This metric is
        the sum of the costs associated with the networks that
        would be traversed in getting to the destination.

      - The IP address of the next gateway along the path to the
        destination.  If the destination is on one of the
        directly-connected networks, this item is not needed.

      - A flag to indicate that information about the route has
        changed recently.  This will be referred to as the "route
        change flag."

      - Various timers associated with the route.  See section 3.3
        for more details on them.

   The entries for the directly-connected networks are set up by the
   host, using information gathered by means not specified in this



Hedrick                                                        [Page 17]

RFC 1058              Routing Information Protocol             June 1988


   protocol.  The metric for a directly-connected network is set to the
   cost of that network.  In existing RIP implementations, 1 is always
   used for the cost.  In that case, the RIP metric reduces to a simple
   hop-count.  More complex metrics may be used when it is desirable to
   show preference for some networks over others, for example because of
   differences in bandwidth or reliability.

   Implementors may also choose to allow the system administrator to
   enter additional routes.  These would most likely be routes to hosts
   or networks outside the scope of the routing system.

   Entries for destinations other these initial ones are added and
   updated by the algorithms described in the following sections.

   In order for the protocol to provide complete information on routing,
   every gateway in the system must participate in it.  Hosts that are
   not gateways need not participate, but many implementations make
   provisions for them to listen to routing information in order to
   allow them to maintain their routing tables.

