4. Control functions

   This section describes administrative controls.  These are not part
   of the protocol per se.  However, experience with existing networks
   suggests that they are important.  Because they are not a necessary
   part of the protocol, they are considered optional.  However, we
   strongly recommend that at least some of them be included in every



Hedrick                                                        [Page 31]

RFC 1058              Routing Information Protocol             June 1988


   implementation.

   These controls are intended primarily to allow RIP to be connected to
   networks whose routing may be unstable or subject to errors.  Here
   are some examples:

   It is sometimes desirable to limit the hosts and gateways from which
   information will be accepted.  On occasion, hosts have been
   misconfigured in such a way that they begin sending inappropriate
   information.

   A number of sites limit the set of networks that they allow in update
   messages.  Organization A may have a connection to organization B
   that they use for direct communication.  For security or performance
   reasons A may not be willing to give other organizations access to
   that connection.  In such cases, A should not include B's networks in
   updates that A sends to third parties.

   Here are some typical controls.  Note, however, that the RIP protocol
   does not require these or any other controls.

      - a neighbor list - the network administrator should be able
        to define a list of neighbors for each host.  A host would
        accept response messages only from hosts on its list of
        neighbors.

      - allowing or disallowing specific destinations - the network
        administrator should be able to specify a list of
        destination addresses to allow or disallow.  The list would
        be associated with a particular interface in the incoming
        or outgoing direction.  Only allowed networks would be
        mentioned in response messages going out or processed in
        response messages coming in.  If a list of allowed
        addresses is specified, all other addresses are disallowed.
        If a list of disallowed addresses is specified, all other
        addresses are allowed.

REFERENCES and BIBLIOGRAPHY

   [1] Bellman, R. E., "Dynamic Programming", Princeton University
       Press, Princeton, N.J., 1957.

   [2] Bertsekas, D. P., and Gallaher, R. G., "Data Networks",
       Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, N.J., 1987.

   [3] Braden, R., and Postel, J., "Requirements for Internet Gateways",
       USC/Information Sciences Institute, RFC-1009, June 1987.




Hedrick                                                        [Page 32]

RFC 1058              Routing Information Protocol             June 1988


   [4] Boggs, D. R., Shoch, J. F., Taft, E. A., and Metcalfe, R. M.,
       "Pup: An Internetwork Architecture", IEEE Transactions on
       Communications, April 1980.

   [5] Clark, D. D., "Fault Isolation and Recovery," MIT-LCS, RFC-816,
       July 1982.

   [6] Ford, L. R. Jr., and Fulkerson, D. R., "Flows in Networks",
       Princeton University Press, Princeton, N.J., 1962.

   [7] Xerox Corp., "Internet Transport Protocols", Xerox System
       Integration Standard XSIS 028112, December 1981.







































Hedrick                                                        [Page 33]

