3.3. Timers

   This section describes all events that are triggered by timers.

   Every 30 seconds, the output process is instructed to generate a
   complete response to every neighboring gateway.  When there are many
   gateways on a single network, there is a tendency for them to
   synchronize with each other such that they all issue updates at the
   same time.  This can happen whenever the 30 second timer is affected
   by the processing load on the system.  It is undesirable for the
   update messages to become synchronized, since it can lead to
   unnecessary collisions on broadcast networks.  Thus, implementations
   are required to take one of two precautions.

      - The 30-second updates are triggered by a clock whose rate
        is not affected by system load or the time required to
        service the previous update timer.

      - The 30-second timer is offset by addition of a small random
        time each time it is set.

   There are two timers associated with each route, a "timeout" and a
   "garbage-collection time".  Upon expiration of the timeout, the route
   is no longer valid.  However, it is retained in the table for a short
   time, so that neighbors can be notified that the route has been
   dropped.  Upon expiration of the garbage-collection timer, the route
   is finally removed from the tables.

   The timeout is initialized when a route is established, and any time
   an update message is received for the route.  If 180 seconds elapse
   from the last time the timeout was initialized, the route is
   considered to have expired, and the deletion process which we are
   about to describe is started for it.

   Deletions can occur for one of two reasons: (1) the timeout expires,
   or (2) the metric is set to 16 because of an update received from the
   current gateway.  (See section 3.4.2 for a discussion processing
   updates from other gateways.)  In either case, the following events
   happen:

      - The garbage-collection timer is set for 120 seconds.

      - The metric for the route is set to 16 (infinity).  This
        causes the route to be removed from service.




Hedrick                                                        [Page 23]

RFC 1058              Routing Information Protocol             June 1988


      - A flag is set noting that this entry has been changed, and
        the output process is signalled to trigger a response.

   Until the garbage-collection timer expires, the route is included in
   all updates sent by this host, with a metric of 16 (infinity).  When
   the garbage-collection timer expires, the route is deleted from the
   tables.

   Should a new route to this network be established while the garbage-
   collection timer is running, the new route will replace the one that
   is about to be deleted.  In this case the garbage-collection timer
   must be cleared.

   See section 3.5 for a discussion of a delay that is required in
   carrying out triggered updates.  Although implementation of that
   delay will require a timer, it is more natural to discuss it in
   section 3.5 than here.

