3.4.1. Request

   Request is used to ask for a response containing all or part of the
   host's routing table.  [Note that the term host is used for either
   host or gateway, in most cases it would be unusual for a non-gateway
   host to send RIP messages.]  Normally, requests are sent as
   broadcasts, from a UDP source port of 520.  In this case, silent
   processes do not respond to the request.  Silent processes are by
   definition processes for which we normally do not want to see routing
   information.  However, there may be situations involving gateway
   monitoring where it is desired to look at the routing table even for
   a silent process.  In this case, the request should be sent from a
   UDP port number other than 520.  If a request comes from port 520,
   silent processes do not respond.  If the request comes from any other
   port, processes must respond even if they are silent.

   The request is processed entry by entry.  If there are no entries, no
   response is given.  There is one special case.  If there is exactly
   one entry in the request, with an address family identifier of 0
   (meaning unspecified), and a metric of infinity (i.e., 16 for current
   implementations), this is a request to send the entire routing table.
   In that case, a call is made to the output process to send the
   routing table to the requesting port.

   Except for this special case, processing is quite simple.  Go down
   the list of entries in the request one by one.  For each entry, look
   up the destination in the host's routing database.  If there is a
   route, put that route's metric in the metric field in the datagram.
   If there isn't a route to the specified destination, put infinity
   (i.e., 16) in the metric field in the datagram.  Once all the entries
   have been filled in, set the command to response and send the
   datagram back to the port from which it came.

   Note that there is a difference in handling depending upon whether
   the request is for a specified set of destinations, or for a complete
   routing table.  If the request is for a complete host table, normal
   output processing is done.  This includes split horizon (see section
   2.2.1) and subnet hiding (section 3.2), so that certain entries from
   the routing table will not be shown.  If the request is for specific
   entries, they are looked up in the host table and the information is
   returned.  No split horizon processing is done, and subnets are
   returned if requested.  We anticipate that these requests are likely
   to be used for different purposes.  When a host first comes up, it
   broadcasts requests on every connected network asking for a complete
   routing table.  In general, we assume that complete routing tables
   are likely to be used to update another host's routing table.  For
   this reason, split horizon and all other filtering must be used.
   Requests for specific networks are made only by diagnostic software,



Hedrick                                                        [Page 25]

RFC 1058              Routing Information Protocol             June 1988


   and are not used for routing.  In this case, the requester would want
   to know the exact contents of the routing database, and would not
   want any information hidden.

