2.1 Invoking GDB
================

Invoke GDB by running the program 'gdb'.  Once started, GDB reads
commands from the terminal until you tell it to exit.

   You can also run 'gdb' with a variety of arguments and options, to
specify more of your debugging environment at the outset.

   The command-line options described here are designed to cover a
variety of situations; in some environments, some of these options may
effectively be unavailable.

   The most usual way to start GDB is with one argument, specifying an
executable program:

     gdb PROGRAM

You can also start with both an executable program and a core file
specified:

     gdb PROGRAM CORE

   You can, instead, specify a process ID as a second argument or use
option '-p', if you want to debug a running process:

     gdb PROGRAM 1234
     gdb -p 1234

would attach GDB to process '1234'.  With option '-p' you can omit the
PROGRAM filename.

   Taking advantage of the second command-line argument requires a
fairly complete operating system; when you use GDB as a remote debugger
attached to a bare board, there may not be any notion of "process", and
there is often no way to get a core dump.  GDB will warn you if it is
unable to attach or to read core dumps.

   You can optionally have 'gdb' pass any arguments after the executable
file to the inferior using '--args'.  This option stops option
processing.
     gdb --args gcc -O2 -c foo.c
   This will cause 'gdb' to debug 'gcc', and to set 'gcc''s command-line
arguments (*note Arguments::) to '-O2 -c foo.c'.

   You can run 'gdb' without printing the front material, which
describes GDB's non-warranty, by specifying '--silent' (or
'-q'/'--quiet'):

     gdb --silent

You can further control how GDB starts up by using command-line options.
GDB itself can remind you of the options available.

Type

     gdb -help

to display all available options and briefly describe their use ('gdb
-h' is a shorter equivalent).

   All options and command line arguments you give are processed in
sequential order.  The order makes a difference when the '-x' option is
used.

* Menu:

* File Options::                Choosing files
* Mode Options::                Choosing modes
* Startup::                     What GDB does during startup

File: gdb.info,  Node: File Options,  Next: Mode Options,  Up: Invoking GDB

2.1.1 Choosing Files
--------------------

When GDB starts, it reads any arguments other than options as specifying
an executable file and core file (or process ID). This is the same as if
the arguments were specified by the '-se' and '-c' (or '-p') options
respectively.  (GDB reads the first argument that does not have an
associated option flag as equivalent to the '-se' option followed by
that argument; and the second argument that does not have an associated
option flag, if any, as equivalent to the '-c'/'-p' option followed by
that argument.)  If the second argument begins with a decimal digit, GDB
will first attempt to attach to it as a process, and if that fails,
attempt to open it as a corefile.  If you have a corefile whose name
begins with a digit, you can prevent GDB from treating it as a pid by
prefixing it with './', e.g. './12345'.

   If GDB has not been configured to included core file support, such as
for most embedded targets, then it will complain about a second argument
and ignore it.

   Many options have both long and short forms; both are shown in the
following list.  GDB also recognizes the long forms if you truncate
them, so long as enough of the option is present to be unambiguous.  (If
you prefer, you can flag option arguments with '--' rather than '-',
though we illustrate the more usual convention.)

'-symbols FILE'
'-s FILE'
     Read symbol table from file FILE.

'-exec FILE'
'-e FILE'
     Use file FILE as the executable file to execute when appropriate,
     and for examining pure data in conjunction with a core dump.

'-se FILE'
     Read symbol table from file FILE and use it as the executable file.

'-core FILE'
'-c FILE'
     Use file FILE as a core dump to examine.

'-pid NUMBER'
'-p NUMBER'
     Connect to process ID NUMBER, as with the 'attach' command.

'-command FILE'
'-x FILE'
     Execute commands from file FILE.  The contents of this file is
     evaluated exactly as the 'source' command would.  *Note Command
     files: Command Files.

'-eval-command COMMAND'
'-ex COMMAND'
     Execute a single GDB command.

     This option may be used multiple times to call multiple commands.
     It may also be interleaved with '-command' as required.

          gdb -ex 'target sim' -ex 'load' \
             -x setbreakpoints -ex 'run' a.out

'-init-command FILE'
'-ix FILE'
     Execute commands from file FILE before loading the inferior (but
     after loading gdbinit files).  *Note Startup::.

'-init-eval-command COMMAND'
'-iex COMMAND'
     Execute a single GDB command before loading the inferior (but after
     loading gdbinit files).  *Note Startup::.

'-directory DIRECTORY'
'-d DIRECTORY'
     Add DIRECTORY to the path to search for source and script files.

'-r'
'-readnow'
     Read each symbol file's entire symbol table immediately, rather
     than the default, which is to read it incrementally as it is
     needed.  This makes startup slower, but makes future operations
     faster.

'--readnever'
     Do not read each symbol file's symbolic debug information.  This
     makes startup faster but at the expense of not being able to
     perform symbolic debugging.  DWARF unwind information is also not
     read, meaning backtraces may become incomplete or inaccurate.  One
     use of this is when a user simply wants to do the following
     sequence: attach, dump core, detach.  Loading the debugging
     information in this case is an unnecessary cause of delay.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Mode Options,  Next: Startup,  Prev: File Options,  Up: Invoking GDB

2.1.2 Choosing Modes
--------------------

You can run GDB in various alternative modes--for example, in batch mode
or quiet mode.

'-nx'
'-n'
     Do not execute commands found in any initialization file.  There
     are three init files, loaded in the following order:

     'system.gdbinit'
          This is the system-wide init file.  Its location is specified
          with the '--with-system-gdbinit' configure option (*note
          System-wide configuration::).  It is loaded first when GDB
          starts, before command line options have been processed.
     'system.gdbinit.d'
          This is the system-wide init directory.  Its location is
          specified with the '--with-system-gdbinit-dir' configure
          option (*note System-wide configuration::).  Files in this
          directory are loaded in alphabetical order immediately after
          system.gdbinit (if enabled) when GDB starts, before command
          line options have been processed.  Files need to have a
          recognized scripting language extension ('.py'/'.scm') or be
          named with a '.gdb' extension to be interpreted as regular GDB
          commands.  GDB will not recurse into any subdirectories of
          this directory.
     '~/.gdbinit'
          This is the init file in your home directory.  It is loaded
          next, after 'system.gdbinit', and before command options have
          been processed.
     './.gdbinit'
          This is the init file in the current directory.  It is loaded
          last, after command line options other than '-x' and '-ex'
          have been processed.  Command line options '-x' and '-ex' are
          processed last, after './.gdbinit' has been loaded.

     For further documentation on startup processing, *Note Startup::.
     For documentation on how to write command files, *Note Command
     Files: Command Files.

'-nh'
     Do not execute commands found in '~/.gdbinit', the init file in
     your home directory.  *Note Startup::.

'-quiet'
'-silent'
'-q'
     "Quiet".  Do not print the introductory and copyright messages.
     These messages are also suppressed in batch mode.

'-batch'
     Run in batch mode.  Exit with status '0' after processing all the
     command files specified with '-x' (and all commands from
     initialization files, if not inhibited with '-n').  Exit with
     nonzero status if an error occurs in executing the GDB commands in
     the command files.  Batch mode also disables pagination, sets
     unlimited terminal width and height *note Screen Size::, and acts
     as if 'set confirm off' were in effect (*note Messages/Warnings::).

     Batch mode may be useful for running GDB as a filter, for example
     to download and run a program on another computer; in order to make
     this more useful, the message

          Program exited normally.

     (which is ordinarily issued whenever a program running under GDB
     control terminates) is not issued when running in batch mode.

'-batch-silent'
     Run in batch mode exactly like '-batch', but totally silently.  All
     GDB output to 'stdout' is prevented ('stderr' is unaffected).  This
     is much quieter than '-silent' and would be useless for an
     interactive session.

     This is particularly useful when using targets that give 'Loading
     section' messages, for example.

     Note that targets that give their output via GDB, as opposed to
     writing directly to 'stdout', will also be made silent.

'-return-child-result'
     The return code from GDB will be the return code from the child
     process (the process being debugged), with the following
     exceptions:

        * GDB exits abnormally.  E.g., due to an incorrect argument or
          an internal error.  In this case the exit code is the same as
          it would have been without '-return-child-result'.
        * The user quits with an explicit value.  E.g., 'quit 1'.
        * The child process never runs, or is not allowed to terminate,
          in which case the exit code will be -1.

     This option is useful in conjunction with '-batch' or
     '-batch-silent', when GDB is being used as a remote program loader
     or simulator interface.

'-nowindows'
'-nw'
     "No windows".  If GDB comes with a graphical user interface (GUI)
     built in, then this option tells GDB to only use the command-line
     interface.  If no GUI is available, this option has no effect.

'-windows'
'-w'
     If GDB includes a GUI, then this option requires it to be used if
     possible.

'-cd DIRECTORY'
     Run GDB using DIRECTORY as its working directory, instead of the
     current directory.

'-data-directory DIRECTORY'
'-D DIRECTORY'
     Run GDB using DIRECTORY as its data directory.  The data directory
     is where GDB searches for its auxiliary files.  *Note Data Files::.

'-fullname'
'-f'
     GNU Emacs sets this option when it runs GDB as a subprocess.  It
     tells GDB to output the full file name and line number in a
     standard, recognizable fashion each time a stack frame is displayed
     (which includes each time your program stops).  This recognizable
     format looks like two '\032' characters, followed by the file name,
     line number and character position separated by colons, and a
     newline.  The Emacs-to-GDB interface program uses the two '\032'
     characters as a signal to display the source code for the frame.

'-annotate LEVEL'
     This option sets the "annotation level" inside GDB.  Its effect is
     identical to using 'set annotate LEVEL' (*note Annotations::).  The
     annotation LEVEL controls how much information GDB prints together
     with its prompt, values of expressions, source lines, and other
     types of output.  Level 0 is the normal, level 1 is for use when
     GDB is run as a subprocess of GNU Emacs, level 3 is the maximum
     annotation suitable for programs that control GDB, and level 2 has
     been deprecated.

     The annotation mechanism has largely been superseded by GDB/MI
     (*note GDB/MI::).

'--args'
     Change interpretation of command line so that arguments following
     the executable file are passed as command line arguments to the
     inferior.  This option stops option processing.

'-baud BPS'
'-b BPS'
     Set the line speed (baud rate or bits per second) of any serial
     interface used by GDB for remote debugging.

'-l TIMEOUT'
     Set the timeout (in seconds) of any communication used by GDB for
     remote debugging.

'-tty DEVICE'
'-t DEVICE'
     Run using DEVICE for your program's standard input and output.

'-tui'
     Activate the "Text User Interface" when starting.  The Text User
     Interface manages several text windows on the terminal, showing
     source, assembly, registers and GDB command outputs (*note GDB Text
     User Interface: TUI.). Do not use this option if you run GDB from
     Emacs (*note Using GDB under GNU Emacs: Emacs.).

'-interpreter INTERP'
     Use the interpreter INTERP for interface with the controlling
     program or device.  This option is meant to be set by programs
     which communicate with GDB using it as a back end.  *Note Command
     Interpreters: Interpreters.

     '--interpreter=mi' (or '--interpreter=mi3') causes GDB to use the
     "GDB/MI interface" version 3 (*note The GDB/MI Interface: GDB/MI.)
     included since GDB version 9.1.  GDB/MI version 2 ('mi2'), included
     in GDB 6.0 and version 1 ('mi1'), included in GDB 5.3, are also
     available.  Earlier GDB/MI interfaces are no longer supported.

'-write'
     Open the executable and core files for both reading and writing.
     This is equivalent to the 'set write on' command inside GDB (*note
     Patching::).

'-statistics'
     This option causes GDB to print statistics about time and memory
     usage after it completes each command and returns to the prompt.

'-version'
     This option causes GDB to print its version number and no-warranty
     blurb, and exit.

'-configuration'
     This option causes GDB to print details about its build-time
     configuration parameters, and then exit.  These details can be
     important when reporting GDB bugs (*note GDB Bugs::).

File: gdb.info,  Node: Startup,  Prev: Mode Options,  Up: Invoking GDB

2.1.3 What GDB Does during Startup
----------------------------------

Here's the description of what GDB does during session startup:

  1. Sets up the command interpreter as specified by the command line
     (*note interpreter: Mode Options.).

  2. Reads the system-wide "init file" (if '--with-system-gdbinit' was
     used when building GDB; *note System-wide configuration and
     settings: System-wide configuration.) and the files in the
     system-wide gdbinit directory (if '--with-system-gdbinit-dir' was
     used) and executes all the commands in those files.  The files need
     to be named with a '.gdb' extension to be interpreted as GDB
     commands, or they can be written in a supported scripting language
     with an appropriate file extension.

  3. Reads the init file (if any) in your home directory(1) and executes
     all the commands in that file.

  4. Executes commands and command files specified by the '-iex' and
     '-ix' options in their specified order.  Usually you should use the
     '-ex' and '-x' options instead, but this way you can apply settings
     before GDB init files get executed and before inferior gets loaded.

  5. Processes command line options and operands.

  6. Reads and executes the commands from init file (if any) in the
     current working directory as long as 'set auto-load local-gdbinit'
     is set to 'on' (*note Init File in the Current Directory::).  This
     is only done if the current directory is different from your home
     directory.  Thus, you can have more than one init file, one generic
     in your home directory, and another, specific to the program you
     are debugging, in the directory where you invoke GDB.

  7. If the command line specified a program to debug, or a process to
     attach to, or a core file, GDB loads any auto-loaded scripts
     provided for the program or for its loaded shared libraries.  *Note
     Auto-loading::.

     If you wish to disable the auto-loading during startup, you must do
     something like the following:

          $ gdb -iex "set auto-load python-scripts off" myprogram

     Option '-ex' does not work because the auto-loading is then turned
     off too late.

  8. Executes commands and command files specified by the '-ex' and '-x'
     options in their specified order.  *Note Command Files::, for more
     details about GDB command files.

  9. Reads the command history recorded in the "history file".  *Note
     Command History::, for more details about the command history and
     the files where GDB records it.

   Init files use the same syntax as "command files" (*note Command
Files::) and are processed by GDB in the same way.  The init file in
your home directory can set options (such as 'set complaints') that
affect subsequent processing of command line options and operands.  Init
files are not executed if you use the '-nx' option (*note Choosing
Modes: Mode Options.).

   To display the list of init files loaded by gdb at startup, you can
use 'gdb --help'.

   The GDB init files are normally called '.gdbinit'.  The DJGPP port of
GDB uses the name 'gdb.ini', due to the limitations of file names
imposed by DOS filesystems.  The Windows port of GDB uses the standard
name, but if it finds a 'gdb.ini' file in your home directory, it warns
you about that and suggests to rename the file to the standard name.

   ---------- Footnotes ----------

   (1) On DOS/Windows systems, the home directory is the one pointed to
by the 'HOME' environment variable.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Quitting GDB,  Next: Shell Commands,  Prev: Invoking GDB,  Up: Invocation

