3.6 Getting Help
================

You can always ask GDB itself for information on its commands, using the
command 'help'.

'help'
'h'
     You can use 'help' (abbreviated 'h') with no arguments to display a
     short list of named classes of commands:

          (gdb) help
          List of classes of commands:

          aliases -- User-defined aliases of other commands
          breakpoints -- Making program stop at certain points
          data -- Examining data
          files -- Specifying and examining files
          internals -- Maintenance commands
          obscure -- Obscure features
          running -- Running the program
          stack -- Examining the stack
          status -- Status inquiries
          support -- Support facilities
          tracepoints -- Tracing of program execution without
                         stopping the program
          user-defined -- User-defined commands

          Type "help" followed by a class name for a list of
          commands in that class.
          Type "help" followed by command name for full
          documentation.
          Command name abbreviations are allowed if unambiguous.
          (gdb)

'help CLASS'
     Using one of the general help classes as an argument, you can get a
     list of the individual commands in that class.  If a command has
     aliases, the aliases are given after the command name, separated by
     commas.  If an alias has default arguments, the full definition of
     the alias is given after the first line.  For example, here is the
     help display for the class 'status':

          (gdb) help status
          Status inquiries.

          List of commands:

          info, inf, i -- Generic command for showing things
                  about the program being debugged
          info address, iamain  -- Describe where symbol SYM is stored.
            alias iamain = info address main
          info all-registers -- List of all registers and their contents,
                  for selected stack frame.
          ...
          show, info set -- Generic command for showing things
                  about the debugger

          Type "help" followed by command name for full
          documentation.
          Command name abbreviations are allowed if unambiguous.
          (gdb)

'help COMMAND'
     With a command name as 'help' argument, GDB displays a short
     paragraph on how to use that command.  If that command has one or
     more aliases, GDB will display a first line with the command name
     and all its aliases separated by commas.  This first line will be
     followed by the full definition of all aliases having default
     arguments.

'apropos [-v] REGEXP'
     The 'apropos' command searches through all of the GDB commands, and
     their documentation, for the regular expression specified in ARGS.
     It prints out all matches found.  The optional flag '-v', which
     stands for 'verbose', indicates to output the full documentation of
     the matching commands and highlight the parts of the documentation
     matching REGEXP.  For example:

          apropos alias

     results in:

          alias -- Define a new command that is an alias of an existing command
          aliases -- User-defined aliases of other commands

     while

          apropos -v cut.*thread apply

     results in the below output, where 'cut for 'thread apply' is
     highlighted if styling is enabled.

          taas -- Apply a command to all threads (ignoring errors
          and empty output).
          Usage: taas COMMAND
          shortcut for 'thread apply all -s COMMAND'

          tfaas -- Apply a command to all frames of all threads
          (ignoring errors and empty output).
          Usage: tfaas COMMAND
          shortcut for 'thread apply all -s frame apply all -s COMMAND'

'complete ARGS'
     The 'complete ARGS' command lists all the possible completions for
     the beginning of a command.  Use ARGS to specify the beginning of
     the command you want completed.  For example:

          complete i

     results in:

          if
          ignore
          info
          inspect

     This is intended for use by GNU Emacs.

   In addition to 'help', you can use the GDB commands 'info' and 'show'
to inquire about the state of your program, or the state of GDB itself.
Each command supports many topics of inquiry; this manual introduces
each of them in the appropriate context.  The listings under 'info' and
under 'show' in the Command, Variable, and Function Index point to all
the sub-commands.  *Note Command and Variable Index::.

'info'
     This command (abbreviated 'i') is for describing the state of your
     program.  For example, you can show the arguments passed to a
     function with 'info args', list the registers currently in use with
     'info registers', or list the breakpoints you have set with 'info
     breakpoints'.  You can get a complete list of the 'info'
     sub-commands with 'help info'.

'set'
     You can assign the result of an expression to an environment
     variable with 'set'.  For example, you can set the GDB prompt to a
     $-sign with 'set prompt $'.

'show'
     In contrast to 'info', 'show' is for describing the state of GDB
     itself.  You can change most of the things you can 'show', by using
     the related command 'set'; for example, you can control what number
     system is used for displays with 'set radix', or simply inquire
     which is currently in use with 'show radix'.

     To display all the settable parameters and their current values,
     you can use 'show' with no arguments; you may also use 'info set'.
     Both commands produce the same display.

   Here are several miscellaneous 'show' subcommands, all of which are
exceptional in lacking corresponding 'set' commands:

'show version'
     Show what version of GDB is running.  You should include this
     information in GDB bug-reports.  If multiple versions of GDB are in
     use at your site, you may need to determine which version of GDB
     you are running; as GDB evolves, new commands are introduced, and
     old ones may wither away.  Also, many system vendors ship variant
     versions of GDB, and there are variant versions of GDB in GNU/Linux
     distributions as well.  The version number is the same as the one
     announced when you start GDB.

'show copying'
'info copying'
     Display information about permission for copying GDB.

'show warranty'
'info warranty'
     Display the GNU "NO WARRANTY" statement, or a warranty, if your
     version of GDB comes with one.

'show configuration'
     Display detailed information about the way GDB was configured when
     it was built.  This displays the optional arguments passed to the
     'configure' script and also configuration parameters detected
     automatically by 'configure'.  When reporting a GDB bug (*note GDB
     Bugs::), it is important to include this information in your
     report.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Running,  Next: Stopping,  Prev: Commands,  Up: Top

