4.9 Debugging Multiple Inferiors Connections and Programs
=========================================================

GDB lets you run and debug multiple programs in a single session.  In
addition, GDB on some systems may let you run several programs
simultaneously (otherwise you have to exit from one before starting
another).  On some systems GDB may even let you debug several programs
simultaneously on different remote systems.  In the most general case,
you can have multiple threads of execution in each of multiple
processes, launched from multiple executables, running on different
machines.

   GDB represents the state of each program execution with an object
called an "inferior".  An inferior typically corresponds to a process,
but is more general and applies also to targets that do not have
processes.  Inferiors may be created before a process runs, and may be
retained after a process exits.  Inferiors have unique identifiers that
are different from process ids.  Usually each inferior will also have
its own distinct address space, although some embedded targets may have
several inferiors running in different parts of a single address space.
Each inferior may in turn have multiple threads running in it.

   To find out what inferiors exist at any moment, use 'info inferiors':

'info inferiors'
     Print a list of all inferiors currently being managed by GDB.  By
     default all inferiors are printed, but the argument ID... - a space
     separated list of inferior numbers - can be used to limit the
     display to just the requested inferiors.

     GDB displays for each inferior (in this order):

       1. the inferior number assigned by GDB

       2. the target system's inferior identifier

       3. the target connection the inferior is bound to, including the
          unique connection number assigned by GDB, and the protocol
          used by the connection.

       4. the name of the executable the inferior is running.

     An asterisk '*' preceding the GDB inferior number indicates the
     current inferior.

     For example,

     (gdb) info inferiors
       Num  Description       Connection                      Executable
     * 1    process 3401      1 (native)                      goodbye
       2    process 2307      2 (extended-remote host:10000)  hello

   To find out what open target connections exist at any moment, use
'info connections':

'info connections'
     Print a list of all open target connections currently being managed
     by GDB.  By default all connections are printed, but the argument
     ID... - a space separated list of connections numbers - can be used
     to limit the display to just the requested connections.

     GDB displays for each connection (in this order):

       1. the connection number assigned by GDB.

       2. the protocol used by the connection.

       3. a textual description of the protocol used by the connection.

     An asterisk '*' preceding the connection number indicates the
     connection of the current inferior.

     For example,

     (gdb) info connections
       Num  What                        Description
     * 1    extended-remote host:10000  Extended remote serial target in gdb-specific protocol
       2    native                      Native process
       3    core                        Local core dump file

   To switch focus between inferiors, use the 'inferior' command:

'inferior INFNO'
     Make inferior number INFNO the current inferior.  The argument
     INFNO is the inferior number assigned by GDB, as shown in the first
     field of the 'info inferiors' display.

   The debugger convenience variable '$_inferior' contains the number of
the current inferior.  You may find this useful in writing breakpoint
conditional expressions, command scripts, and so forth.  *Note
Convenience Variables: Convenience Vars, for general information on
convenience variables.

   You can get multiple executables into a debugging session via the
'add-inferior' and 'clone-inferior' commands.  On some systems GDB can
add inferiors to the debug session automatically by following calls to
'fork' and 'exec'.  To remove inferiors from the debugging session use
the 'remove-inferiors' command.

'add-inferior [ -copies N ] [ -exec EXECUTABLE ] [-no-connection ]'
     Adds N inferiors to be run using EXECUTABLE as the executable; N
     defaults to 1.  If no executable is specified, the inferiors begins
     empty, with no program.  You can still assign or change the program
     assigned to the inferior at any time by using the 'file' command
     with the executable name as its argument.

     By default, the new inferior begins connected to the same target
     connection as the current inferior.  For example, if the current
     inferior was connected to 'gdbserver' with 'target remote', then
     the new inferior will be connected to the same 'gdbserver'
     instance.  The '-no-connection' option starts the new inferior with
     no connection yet.  You can then for example use the 'target
     remote' command to connect to some other 'gdbserver' instance, use
     'run' to spawn a local program, etc.

'clone-inferior [ -copies N ] [ INFNO ]'
     Adds N inferiors ready to execute the same program as inferior
     INFNO; N defaults to 1, and INFNO defaults to the number of the
     current inferior.  This is a convenient command when you want to
     run another instance of the inferior you are debugging.

          (gdb) info inferiors
            Num  Description       Connection   Executable
          * 1    process 29964     1 (native)   helloworld
          (gdb) clone-inferior
          Added inferior 2.
          1 inferiors added.
          (gdb) info inferiors
            Num  Description       Connection   Executable
          * 1    process 29964     1 (native)   helloworld
            2    <null>            1 (native)   helloworld

     You can now simply switch focus to inferior 2 and run it.

'remove-inferiors INFNO...'
     Removes the inferior or inferiors INFNO....  It is not possible to
     remove an inferior that is running with this command.  For those,
     use the 'kill' or 'detach' command first.

   To quit debugging one of the running inferiors that is not the
current inferior, you can either detach from it by using the
'detach inferior' command (allowing it to run independently), or kill it
using the 'kill inferiors' command:

'detach inferior INFNO...'
     Detach from the inferior or inferiors identified by GDB inferior
     number(s) INFNO....  Note that the inferior's entry still stays on
     the list of inferiors shown by 'info inferiors', but its
     Description will show '<null>'.

'kill inferiors INFNO...'
     Kill the inferior or inferiors identified by GDB inferior number(s)
     INFNO....  Note that the inferior's entry still stays on the list
     of inferiors shown by 'info inferiors', but its Description will
     show '<null>'.

   After the successful completion of a command such as 'detach',
'detach inferiors', 'kill' or 'kill inferiors', or after a normal
process exit, the inferior is still valid and listed with 'info
inferiors', ready to be restarted.

   To be notified when inferiors are started or exit under GDB's control
use 'set print inferior-events':

'set print inferior-events'
'set print inferior-events on'
'set print inferior-events off'
     The 'set print inferior-events' command allows you to enable or
     disable printing of messages when GDB notices that new inferiors
     have started or that inferiors have exited or have been detached.
     By default, these messages will not be printed.

'show print inferior-events'
     Show whether messages will be printed when GDB detects that
     inferiors have started, exited or have been detached.

   Many commands will work the same with multiple programs as with a
single program: e.g., 'print myglobal' will simply display the value of
'myglobal' in the current inferior.

   Occasionally, when debugging GDB itself, it may be useful to get more
info about the relationship of inferiors, programs, address spaces in a
debug session.  You can do that with the 'maint info program-spaces'
command.

'maint info program-spaces'
     Print a list of all program spaces currently being managed by GDB.

     GDB displays for each program space (in this order):

       1. the program space number assigned by GDB

       2. the name of the executable loaded into the program space, with
          e.g., the 'file' command.

     An asterisk '*' preceding the GDB program space number indicates
     the current program space.

     In addition, below each program space line, GDB prints extra
     information that isn't suitable to display in tabular form.  For
     example, the list of inferiors bound to the program space.

          (gdb) maint info program-spaces
            Id   Executable
          * 1    hello
            2    goodbye
                  Bound inferiors: ID 1 (process 21561)

     Here we can see that no inferior is running the program 'hello',
     while 'process 21561' is running the program 'goodbye'.  On some
     targets, it is possible that multiple inferiors are bound to the
     same program space.  The most common example is that of debugging
     both the parent and child processes of a 'vfork' call.  For
     example,

          (gdb) maint info program-spaces
            Id   Executable
          * 1    vfork-test
                  Bound inferiors: ID 2 (process 18050), ID 1 (process 18045)

     Here, both inferior 2 and inferior 1 are running in the same
     program space as a result of inferior 1 having executed a 'vfork'
     call.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Threads,  Next: Forks,  Prev: Inferiors Connections and Programs,  Up: Running

