4.11 Debugging Forks
====================

On most systems, GDB has no special support for debugging programs which
create additional processes using the 'fork' function.  When a program
forks, GDB will continue to debug the parent process and the child
process will run unimpeded.  If you have set a breakpoint in any code
which the child then executes, the child will get a 'SIGTRAP' signal
which (unless it catches the signal) will cause it to terminate.

   However, if you want to debug the child process there is a workaround
which isn't too painful.  Put a call to 'sleep' in the code which the
child process executes after the fork.  It may be useful to sleep only
if a certain environment variable is set, or a certain file exists, so
that the delay need not occur when you don't want to run GDB on the
child.  While the child is sleeping, use the 'ps' program to get its
process ID. Then tell GDB (a new invocation of GDB if you are also
debugging the parent process) to attach to the child process (*note
Attach::).  From that point on you can debug the child process just like
any other process which you attached to.

   On some systems, GDB provides support for debugging programs that
create additional processes using the 'fork' or 'vfork' functions.  On
GNU/Linux platforms, this feature is supported with kernel version
2.5.46 and later.

   The fork debugging commands are supported in native mode and when
connected to 'gdbserver' in either 'target remote' mode or 'target
extended-remote' mode.

   By default, when a program forks, GDB will continue to debug the
parent process and the child process will run unimpeded.

   If you want to follow the child process instead of the parent
process, use the command 'set follow-fork-mode'.

'set follow-fork-mode MODE'
     Set the debugger response to a program call of 'fork' or 'vfork'.
     A call to 'fork' or 'vfork' creates a new process.  The MODE
     argument can be:

     'parent'
          The original process is debugged after a fork.  The child
          process runs unimpeded.  This is the default.

     'child'
          The new process is debugged after a fork.  The parent process
          runs unimpeded.

'show follow-fork-mode'
     Display the current debugger response to a 'fork' or 'vfork' call.

   On Linux, if you want to debug both the parent and child processes,
use the command 'set detach-on-fork'.

'set detach-on-fork MODE'
     Tells gdb whether to detach one of the processes after a fork, or
     retain debugger control over them both.

     'on'
          The child process (or parent process, depending on the value
          of 'follow-fork-mode') will be detached and allowed to run
          independently.  This is the default.

     'off'
          Both processes will be held under the control of GDB.  One
          process (child or parent, depending on the value of
          'follow-fork-mode') is debugged as usual, while the other is
          held suspended.

'show detach-on-fork'
     Show whether detach-on-fork mode is on/off.

   If you choose to set 'detach-on-fork' mode off, then GDB will retain
control of all forked processes (including nested forks).  You can list
the forked processes under the control of GDB by using the
'info inferiors' command, and switch from one fork to another by using
the 'inferior' command (*note Debugging Multiple Inferiors Connections
and Programs: Inferiors Connections and Programs.).

   To quit debugging one of the forked processes, you can either detach
from it by using the 'detach inferiors' command (allowing it to run
independently), or kill it using the 'kill inferiors' command.  *Note
Debugging Multiple Inferiors Connections and Programs: Inferiors
Connections and Programs.

   If you ask to debug a child process and a 'vfork' is followed by an
'exec', GDB executes the new target up to the first breakpoint in the
new target.  If you have a breakpoint set on 'main' in your original
program, the breakpoint will also be set on the child process's 'main'.

   On some systems, when a child process is spawned by 'vfork', you
cannot debug the child or parent until an 'exec' call completes.

   If you issue a 'run' command to GDB after an 'exec' call executes,
the new target restarts.  To restart the parent process, use the 'file'
command with the parent executable name as its argument.  By default,
after an 'exec' call executes, GDB discards the symbols of the previous
executable image.  You can change this behaviour with the
'set follow-exec-mode' command.

'set follow-exec-mode MODE'

     Set debugger response to a program call of 'exec'.  An 'exec' call
     replaces the program image of a process.

     'follow-exec-mode' can be:

     'new'
          GDB creates a new inferior and rebinds the process to this new
          inferior.  The program the process was running before the
          'exec' call can be restarted afterwards by restarting the
          original inferior.

          For example:

               (gdb) info inferiors
               (gdb) info inferior
                 Id   Description   Executable
               * 1    <null>        prog1
               (gdb) run
               process 12020 is executing new program: prog2
               Program exited normally.
               (gdb) info inferiors
                 Id   Description   Executable
                 1    <null>        prog1
               * 2    <null>        prog2

     'same'
          GDB keeps the process bound to the same inferior.  The new
          executable image replaces the previous executable loaded in
          the inferior.  Restarting the inferior after the 'exec' call,
          with e.g., the 'run' command, restarts the executable the
          process was running after the 'exec' call.  This is the
          default mode.

          For example:

               (gdb) info inferiors
                 Id   Description   Executable
               * 1    <null>        prog1
               (gdb) run
               process 12020 is executing new program: prog2
               Program exited normally.
               (gdb) info inferiors
                 Id   Description   Executable
               * 1    <null>        prog2

   'follow-exec-mode' is supported in native mode and 'target
extended-remote' mode.

   You can use the 'catch' command to make GDB stop whenever a 'fork',
'vfork', or 'exec' call is made.  *Note Setting Catchpoints: Set
Catchpoints.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Checkpoint/Restart,  Prev: Forks,  Up: Running

