5.1 Breakpoints, Watchpoints, and Catchpoints
=============================================

A "breakpoint" makes your program stop whenever a certain point in the
program is reached.  For each breakpoint, you can add conditions to
control in finer detail whether your program stops.  You can set
breakpoints with the 'break' command and its variants (*note Setting
Breakpoints: Set Breaks.), to specify the place where your program
should stop by line number, function name or exact address in the
program.

   On some systems, you can set breakpoints in shared libraries before
the executable is run.

   A "watchpoint" is a special breakpoint that stops your program when
the value of an expression changes.  The expression may be a value of a
variable, or it could involve values of one or more variables combined
by operators, such as 'a + b'.  This is sometimes called "data
breakpoints".  You must use a different command to set watchpoints
(*note Setting Watchpoints: Set Watchpoints.), but aside from that, you
can manage a watchpoint like any other breakpoint: you enable, disable,
and delete both breakpoints and watchpoints using the same commands.

   You can arrange to have values from your program displayed
automatically whenever GDB stops at a breakpoint.  *Note Automatic
Display: Auto Display.

   A "catchpoint" is another special breakpoint that stops your program
when a certain kind of event occurs, such as the throwing of a C++
exception or the loading of a library.  As with watchpoints, you use a
different command to set a catchpoint (*note Setting Catchpoints: Set
Catchpoints.), but aside from that, you can manage a catchpoint like any
other breakpoint.  (To stop when your program receives a signal, use the
'handle' command; see *note Signals: Signals.)

   GDB assigns a number to each breakpoint, watchpoint, or catchpoint
when you create it; these numbers are successive integers starting with
one.  In many of the commands for controlling various features of
breakpoints you use the breakpoint number to say which breakpoint you
want to change.  Each breakpoint may be "enabled" or "disabled"; if
disabled, it has no effect on your program until you enable it again.

   Some GDB commands accept a space-separated list of breakpoints on
which to operate.  A list element can be either a single breakpoint
number, like '5', or a range of such numbers, like '5-7'.  When a
breakpoint list is given to a command, all breakpoints in that list are
operated on.

* Menu:

* Set Breaks::                  Setting breakpoints
* Set Watchpoints::             Setting watchpoints
* Set Catchpoints::             Setting catchpoints
* Delete Breaks::               Deleting breakpoints
* Disabling::                   Disabling breakpoints
* Conditions::                  Break conditions
* Break Commands::              Breakpoint command lists
* Dynamic printf::              Dynamic printf
* Save Breakpoints::            How to save breakpoints in a file
* Static Probe Points::         Listing static probe points
* Error in Breakpoints::        "Cannot insert breakpoints"
* Breakpoint-related Warnings:: "Breakpoint address adjusted..."

File: gdb.info,  Node: Set Breaks,  Next: Set Watchpoints,  Up: Breakpoints

5.1.1 Setting Breakpoints
-------------------------

Breakpoints are set with the 'break' command (abbreviated 'b').  The
debugger convenience variable '$bpnum' records the number of the
breakpoint you've set most recently; see *note Convenience Variables:
Convenience Vars, for a discussion of what you can do with convenience
variables.

'break LOCATION'
     Set a breakpoint at the given LOCATION, which can specify a
     function name, a line number, or an address of an instruction.
     (*Note Specify Location::, for a list of all the possible ways to
     specify a LOCATION.)  The breakpoint will stop your program just
     before it executes any of the code in the specified LOCATION.

     When using source languages that permit overloading of symbols,
     such as C++, a function name may refer to more than one possible
     place to break.  *Note Ambiguous Expressions: Ambiguous
     Expressions, for a discussion of that situation.

     It is also possible to insert a breakpoint that will stop the
     program only if a specific thread (*note Thread-Specific
     Breakpoints::) or a specific task (*note Ada Tasks::) hits that
     breakpoint.

'break'
     When called without any arguments, 'break' sets a breakpoint at the
     next instruction to be executed in the selected stack frame (*note
     Examining the Stack: Stack.).  In any selected frame but the
     innermost, this makes your program stop as soon as control returns
     to that frame.  This is similar to the effect of a 'finish' command
     in the frame inside the selected frame--except that 'finish' does
     not leave an active breakpoint.  If you use 'break' without an
     argument in the innermost frame, GDB stops the next time it reaches
     the current location; this may be useful inside loops.

     GDB normally ignores breakpoints when it resumes execution, until
     at least one instruction has been executed.  If it did not do this,
     you would be unable to proceed past a breakpoint without first
     disabling the breakpoint.  This rule applies whether or not the
     breakpoint already existed when your program stopped.

'break ... if COND'
     Set a breakpoint with condition COND; evaluate the expression COND
     each time the breakpoint is reached, and stop only if the value is
     nonzero--that is, if COND evaluates as true.  '...' stands for one
     of the possible arguments described above (or no argument)
     specifying where to break.  *Note Break Conditions: Conditions, for
     more information on breakpoint conditions.

'tbreak ARGS'
     Set a breakpoint enabled only for one stop.  The ARGS are the same
     as for the 'break' command, and the breakpoint is set in the same
     way, but the breakpoint is automatically deleted after the first
     time your program stops there.  *Note Disabling Breakpoints:
     Disabling.

'hbreak ARGS'
     Set a hardware-assisted breakpoint.  The ARGS are the same as for
     the 'break' command and the breakpoint is set in the same way, but
     the breakpoint requires hardware support and some target hardware
     may not have this support.  The main purpose of this is EPROM/ROM
     code debugging, so you can set a breakpoint at an instruction
     without changing the instruction.  This can be used with the new
     trap-generation provided by SPARClite DSU and most x86-based
     targets.  These targets will generate traps when a program accesses
     some data or instruction address that is assigned to the debug
     registers.  However the hardware breakpoint registers can take a
     limited number of breakpoints.  For example, on the DSU, only two
     data breakpoints can be set at a time, and GDB will reject this
     command if more than two are used.  Delete or disable unused
     hardware breakpoints before setting new ones (*note Disabling
     Breakpoints: Disabling.).  *Note Break Conditions: Conditions.  For
     remote targets, you can restrict the number of hardware breakpoints
     GDB will use, see *note set remote hardware-breakpoint-limit::.

'thbreak ARGS'
     Set a hardware-assisted breakpoint enabled only for one stop.  The
     ARGS are the same as for the 'hbreak' command and the breakpoint is
     set in the same way.  However, like the 'tbreak' command, the
     breakpoint is automatically deleted after the first time your
     program stops there.  Also, like the 'hbreak' command, the
     breakpoint requires hardware support and some target hardware may
     not have this support.  *Note Disabling Breakpoints: Disabling.
     See also *note Break Conditions: Conditions.

'rbreak REGEX'
     Set breakpoints on all functions matching the regular expression
     REGEX.  This command sets an unconditional breakpoint on all
     matches, printing a list of all breakpoints it set.  Once these
     breakpoints are set, they are treated just like the breakpoints set
     with the 'break' command.  You can delete them, disable them, or
     make them conditional the same way as any other breakpoint.

     In programs using different languages, GDB chooses the syntax to
     print the list of all breakpoints it sets according to the 'set
     language' value: using 'set language auto' (see *note Set Language
     Automatically: Automatically.) means to use the language of the
     breakpoint's function, other values mean to use the manually
     specified language (see *note Set Language Manually: Manually.).

     The syntax of the regular expression is the standard one used with
     tools like 'grep'.  Note that this is different from the syntax
     used by shells, so for instance 'foo*' matches all functions that
     include an 'fo' followed by zero or more 'o's.  There is an
     implicit '.*' leading and trailing the regular expression you
     supply, so to match only functions that begin with 'foo', use
     '^foo'.

     When debugging C++ programs, 'rbreak' is useful for setting
     breakpoints on overloaded functions that are not members of any
     special classes.

     The 'rbreak' command can be used to set breakpoints in *all* the
     functions in a program, like this:

          (gdb) rbreak .

'rbreak FILE:REGEX'
     If 'rbreak' is called with a filename qualification, it limits the
     search for functions matching the given regular expression to the
     specified FILE.  This can be used, for example, to set breakpoints
     on every function in a given file:

          (gdb) rbreak file.c:.

     The colon separating the filename qualifier from the regex may
     optionally be surrounded by spaces.

'info breakpoints [LIST...]'
'info break [LIST...]'
     Print a table of all breakpoints, watchpoints, and catchpoints set
     and not deleted.  Optional argument N means print information only
     about the specified breakpoint(s) (or watchpoint(s) or
     catchpoint(s)).  For each breakpoint, following columns are
     printed:

     _Breakpoint Numbers_
     _Type_
          Breakpoint, watchpoint, or catchpoint.
     _Disposition_
          Whether the breakpoint is marked to be disabled or deleted
          when hit.
     _Enabled or Disabled_
          Enabled breakpoints are marked with 'y'.  'n' marks
          breakpoints that are not enabled.
     _Address_
          Where the breakpoint is in your program, as a memory address.
          For a pending breakpoint whose address is not yet known, this
          field will contain '<PENDING>'.  Such breakpoint won't fire
          until a shared library that has the symbol or line referred by
          breakpoint is loaded.  See below for details.  A breakpoint
          with several locations will have '<MULTIPLE>' in this
          field--see below for details.
     _What_
          Where the breakpoint is in the source for your program, as a
          file and line number.  For a pending breakpoint, the original
          string passed to the breakpoint command will be listed as it
          cannot be resolved until the appropriate shared library is
          loaded in the future.

     If a breakpoint is conditional, there are two evaluation modes:
     "host" and "target".  If mode is "host", breakpoint condition
     evaluation is done by GDB on the host's side.  If it is "target",
     then the condition is evaluated by the target.  The 'info break'
     command shows the condition on the line following the affected
     breakpoint, together with its condition evaluation mode in between
     parentheses.

     Breakpoint commands, if any, are listed after that.  A pending
     breakpoint is allowed to have a condition specified for it.  The
     condition is not parsed for validity until a shared library is
     loaded that allows the pending breakpoint to resolve to a valid
     location.

     'info break' with a breakpoint number N as argument lists only that
     breakpoint.  The convenience variable '$_' and the default
     examining-address for the 'x' command are set to the address of the
     last breakpoint listed (*note Examining Memory: Memory.).

     'info break' displays a count of the number of times the breakpoint
     has been hit.  This is especially useful in conjunction with the
     'ignore' command.  You can ignore a large number of breakpoint
     hits, look at the breakpoint info to see how many times the
     breakpoint was hit, and then run again, ignoring one less than that
     number.  This will get you quickly to the last hit of that
     breakpoint.

     For a breakpoints with an enable count (xref) greater than 1, 'info
     break' also displays that count.

   GDB allows you to set any number of breakpoints at the same place in
your program.  There is nothing silly or meaningless about this.  When
the breakpoints are conditional, this is even useful (*note Break
Conditions: Conditions.).

   It is possible that a breakpoint corresponds to several locations in
your program.  Examples of this situation are:

   * Multiple functions in the program may have the same name.

   * For a C++ constructor, the GCC compiler generates several instances
     of the function body, used in different cases.

   * For a C++ template function, a given line in the function can
     correspond to any number of instantiations.

   * For an inlined function, a given source line can correspond to
     several places where that function is inlined.

   In all those cases, GDB will insert a breakpoint at all the relevant
locations.

   A breakpoint with multiple locations is displayed in the breakpoint
table using several rows--one header row, followed by one row for each
breakpoint location.  The header row has '<MULTIPLE>' in the address
column.  The rows for individual locations contain the actual addresses
for locations, and show the functions to which those locations belong.
The number column for a location is of the form
BREAKPOINT-NUMBER.LOCATION-NUMBER.

   For example:

     Num     Type           Disp Enb  Address    What
     1       breakpoint     keep y    <MULTIPLE>
             stop only if i==1
             breakpoint already hit 1 time
     1.1                         y    0x080486a2 in void foo<int>() at t.cc:8
     1.2                         y    0x080486ca in void foo<double>() at t.cc:8

   You cannot delete the individual locations from a breakpoint.
However, each location can be individually enabled or disabled by
passing BREAKPOINT-NUMBER.LOCATION-NUMBER as argument to the 'enable'
and 'disable' commands.  It's also possible to 'enable' and 'disable' a
range of LOCATION-NUMBER locations using a BREAKPOINT-NUMBER and two
LOCATION-NUMBERs, in increasing order, separated by a hyphen, like
'BREAKPOINT-NUMBER.LOCATION-NUMBER1-LOCATION-NUMBER2', in which case GDB
acts on all the locations in the range (inclusive).  Disabling or
enabling the parent breakpoint (*note Disabling::) affects all of the
locations that belong to that breakpoint.

   It's quite common to have a breakpoint inside a shared library.
Shared libraries can be loaded and unloaded explicitly, and possibly
repeatedly, as the program is executed.  To support this use case, GDB
updates breakpoint locations whenever any shared library is loaded or
unloaded.  Typically, you would set a breakpoint in a shared library at
the beginning of your debugging session, when the library is not loaded,
and when the symbols from the library are not available.  When you try
to set breakpoint, GDB will ask you if you want to set a so called
"pending breakpoint"--breakpoint whose address is not yet resolved.

   After the program is run, whenever a new shared library is loaded,
GDB reevaluates all the breakpoints.  When a newly loaded shared library
contains the symbol or line referred to by some pending breakpoint, that
breakpoint is resolved and becomes an ordinary breakpoint.  When a
library is unloaded, all breakpoints that refer to its symbols or source
lines become pending again.

   This logic works for breakpoints with multiple locations, too.  For
example, if you have a breakpoint in a C++ template function, and a
newly loaded shared library has an instantiation of that template, a new
location is added to the list of locations for the breakpoint.

   Except for having unresolved address, pending breakpoints do not
differ from regular breakpoints.  You can set conditions or commands,
enable and disable them and perform other breakpoint operations.

   GDB provides some additional commands for controlling what happens
when the 'break' command cannot resolve breakpoint address specification
to an address:

'set breakpoint pending auto'
     This is the default behavior.  When GDB cannot find the breakpoint
     location, it queries you whether a pending breakpoint should be
     created.

'set breakpoint pending on'
     This indicates that an unrecognized breakpoint location should
     automatically result in a pending breakpoint being created.

'set breakpoint pending off'
     This indicates that pending breakpoints are not to be created.  Any
     unrecognized breakpoint location results in an error.  This setting
     does not affect any pending breakpoints previously created.

'show breakpoint pending'
     Show the current behavior setting for creating pending breakpoints.

   The settings above only affect the 'break' command and its variants.
Once breakpoint is set, it will be automatically updated as shared
libraries are loaded and unloaded.

   For some targets, GDB can automatically decide if hardware or
software breakpoints should be used, depending on whether the breakpoint
address is read-only or read-write.  This applies to breakpoints set
with the 'break' command as well as to internal breakpoints set by
commands like 'next' and 'finish'.  For breakpoints set with 'hbreak',
GDB will always use hardware breakpoints.

   You can control this automatic behaviour with the following commands:

'set breakpoint auto-hw on'
     This is the default behavior.  When GDB sets a breakpoint, it will
     try to use the target memory map to decide if software or hardware
     breakpoint must be used.

'set breakpoint auto-hw off'
     This indicates GDB should not automatically select breakpoint type.
     If the target provides a memory map, GDB will warn when trying to
     set software breakpoint at a read-only address.

   GDB normally implements breakpoints by replacing the program code at
the breakpoint address with a special instruction, which, when executed,
given control to the debugger.  By default, the program code is so
modified only when the program is resumed.  As soon as the program
stops, GDB restores the original instructions.  This behaviour guards
against leaving breakpoints inserted in the target should gdb abrubptly
disconnect.  However, with slow remote targets, inserting and removing
breakpoint can reduce the performance.  This behavior can be controlled
with the following commands::

'set breakpoint always-inserted off'
     All breakpoints, including newly added by the user, are inserted in
     the target only when the target is resumed.  All breakpoints are
     removed from the target when it stops.  This is the default mode.

'set breakpoint always-inserted on'
     Causes all breakpoints to be inserted in the target at all times.
     If the user adds a new breakpoint, or changes an existing
     breakpoint, the breakpoints in the target are updated immediately.
     A breakpoint is removed from the target only when breakpoint itself
     is deleted.

   GDB handles conditional breakpoints by evaluating these conditions
when a breakpoint breaks.  If the condition is true, then the process
being debugged stops, otherwise the process is resumed.

   If the target supports evaluating conditions on its end, GDB may
download the breakpoint, together with its conditions, to it.

   This feature can be controlled via the following commands:

'set breakpoint condition-evaluation host'
     This option commands GDB to evaluate the breakpoint conditions on
     the host's side.  Unconditional breakpoints are sent to the target
     which in turn receives the triggers and reports them back to GDB
     for condition evaluation.  This is the standard evaluation mode.

'set breakpoint condition-evaluation target'
     This option commands GDB to download breakpoint conditions to the
     target at the moment of their insertion.  The target is responsible
     for evaluating the conditional expression and reporting breakpoint
     stop events back to GDB whenever the condition is true.  Due to
     limitations of target-side evaluation, some conditions cannot be
     evaluated there, e.g., conditions that depend on local data that is
     only known to the host.  Examples include conditional expressions
     involving convenience variables, complex types that cannot be
     handled by the agent expression parser and expressions that are too
     long to be sent over to the target, specially when the target is a
     remote system.  In these cases, the conditions will be evaluated by
     GDB.

'set breakpoint condition-evaluation auto'
     This is the default mode.  If the target supports evaluating
     breakpoint conditions on its end, GDB will download breakpoint
     conditions to the target (limitations mentioned previously apply).
     If the target does not support breakpoint condition evaluation,
     then GDB will fallback to evaluating all these conditions on the
     host's side.

   GDB itself sometimes sets breakpoints in your program for special
purposes, such as proper handling of 'longjmp' (in C programs).  These
internal breakpoints are assigned negative numbers, starting with '-1';
'info breakpoints' does not display them.  You can see these breakpoints
with the GDB maintenance command 'maint info breakpoints' (*note maint
info breakpoints::).

File: gdb.info,  Node: Set Watchpoints,  Next: Set Catchpoints,  Prev: Set Breaks,  Up: Breakpoints

5.1.2 Setting Watchpoints
-------------------------

You can use a watchpoint to stop execution whenever the value of an
expression changes, without having to predict a particular place where
this may happen.  (This is sometimes called a "data breakpoint".)  The
expression may be as simple as the value of a single variable, or as
complex as many variables combined by operators.  Examples include:

   * A reference to the value of a single variable.

   * An address cast to an appropriate data type.  For example, '*(int
     *)0x12345678' will watch a 4-byte region at the specified address
     (assuming an 'int' occupies 4 bytes).

   * An arbitrarily complex expression, such as 'a*b + c/d'.  The
     expression can use any operators valid in the program's native
     language (*note Languages::).

   You can set a watchpoint on an expression even if the expression can
not be evaluated yet.  For instance, you can set a watchpoint on
'*global_ptr' before 'global_ptr' is initialized.  GDB will stop when
your program sets 'global_ptr' and the expression produces a valid
value.  If the expression becomes valid in some other way than changing
a variable (e.g. if the memory pointed to by '*global_ptr' becomes
readable as the result of a 'malloc' call), GDB may not stop until the
next time the expression changes.

   Depending on your system, watchpoints may be implemented in software
or hardware.  GDB does software watchpointing by single-stepping your
program and testing the variable's value each time, which is hundreds of
times slower than normal execution.  (But this may still be worth it, to
catch errors where you have no clue what part of your program is the
culprit.)

   On some systems, such as most PowerPC or x86-based targets, GDB
includes support for hardware watchpoints, which do not slow down the
running of your program.

'watch [-l|-location] EXPR [thread THREAD-ID] [mask MASKVALUE]'
     Set a watchpoint for an expression.  GDB will break when the
     expression EXPR is written into by the program and its value
     changes.  The simplest (and the most popular) use of this command
     is to watch the value of a single variable:

          (gdb) watch foo

     If the command includes a '[thread THREAD-ID]' argument, GDB breaks
     only when the thread identified by THREAD-ID changes the value of
     EXPR.  If any other threads change the value of EXPR, GDB will not
     break.  Note that watchpoints restricted to a single thread in this
     way only work with Hardware Watchpoints.

     Ordinarily a watchpoint respects the scope of variables in EXPR
     (see below).  The '-location' argument tells GDB to instead watch
     the memory referred to by EXPR.  In this case, GDB will evaluate
     EXPR, take the address of the result, and watch the memory at that
     address.  The type of the result is used to determine the size of
     the watched memory.  If the expression's result does not have an
     address, then GDB will print an error.

     The '[mask MASKVALUE]' argument allows creation of masked
     watchpoints, if the current architecture supports this feature
     (e.g., PowerPC Embedded architecture, see *note PowerPC
     Embedded::.)  A "masked watchpoint" specifies a mask in addition to
     an address to watch.  The mask specifies that some bits of an
     address (the bits which are reset in the mask) should be ignored
     when matching the address accessed by the inferior against the
     watchpoint address.  Thus, a masked watchpoint watches many
     addresses simultaneously--those addresses whose unmasked bits are
     identical to the unmasked bits in the watchpoint address.  The
     'mask' argument implies '-location'.  Examples:

          (gdb) watch foo mask 0xffff00ff
          (gdb) watch *0xdeadbeef mask 0xffffff00

'rwatch [-l|-location] EXPR [thread THREAD-ID] [mask MASKVALUE]'
     Set a watchpoint that will break when the value of EXPR is read by
     the program.

'awatch [-l|-location] EXPR [thread THREAD-ID] [mask MASKVALUE]'
     Set a watchpoint that will break when EXPR is either read from or
     written into by the program.

'info watchpoints [LIST...]'
     This command prints a list of watchpoints, using the same format as
     'info break' (*note Set Breaks::).

   If you watch for a change in a numerically entered address you need
to dereference it, as the address itself is just a constant number which
will never change.  GDB refuses to create a watchpoint that watches a
never-changing value:

     (gdb) watch 0x600850
     Cannot watch constant value 0x600850.
     (gdb) watch *(int *) 0x600850
     Watchpoint 1: *(int *) 6293584

   GDB sets a "hardware watchpoint" if possible.  Hardware watchpoints
execute very quickly, and the debugger reports a change in value at the
exact instruction where the change occurs.  If GDB cannot set a hardware
watchpoint, it sets a software watchpoint, which executes more slowly
and reports the change in value at the next _statement_, not the
instruction, after the change occurs.

   You can force GDB to use only software watchpoints with the 'set
can-use-hw-watchpoints 0' command.  With this variable set to zero, GDB
will never try to use hardware watchpoints, even if the underlying
system supports them.  (Note that hardware-assisted watchpoints that
were set _before_ setting 'can-use-hw-watchpoints' to zero will still
use the hardware mechanism of watching expression values.)

'set can-use-hw-watchpoints'
     Set whether or not to use hardware watchpoints.

'show can-use-hw-watchpoints'
     Show the current mode of using hardware watchpoints.

   For remote targets, you can restrict the number of hardware
watchpoints GDB will use, see *note set remote
hardware-breakpoint-limit::.

   When you issue the 'watch' command, GDB reports

     Hardware watchpoint NUM: EXPR

if it was able to set a hardware watchpoint.

   Currently, the 'awatch' and 'rwatch' commands can only set hardware
watchpoints, because accesses to data that don't change the value of the
watched expression cannot be detected without examining every
instruction as it is being executed, and GDB does not do that currently.
If GDB finds that it is unable to set a hardware breakpoint with the
'awatch' or 'rwatch' command, it will print a message like this:

     Expression cannot be implemented with read/access watchpoint.

   Sometimes, GDB cannot set a hardware watchpoint because the data type
of the watched expression is wider than what a hardware watchpoint on
the target machine can handle.  For example, some systems can only watch
regions that are up to 4 bytes wide; on such systems you cannot set
hardware watchpoints for an expression that yields a double-precision
floating-point number (which is typically 8 bytes wide).  As a
work-around, it might be possible to break the large region into a
series of smaller ones and watch them with separate watchpoints.

   If you set too many hardware watchpoints, GDB might be unable to
insert all of them when you resume the execution of your program.  Since
the precise number of active watchpoints is unknown until such time as
the program is about to be resumed, GDB might not be able to warn you
about this when you set the watchpoints, and the warning will be printed
only when the program is resumed:

     Hardware watchpoint NUM: Could not insert watchpoint

If this happens, delete or disable some of the watchpoints.

   Watching complex expressions that reference many variables can also
exhaust the resources available for hardware-assisted watchpoints.
That's because GDB needs to watch every variable in the expression with
separately allocated resources.

   If you call a function interactively using 'print' or 'call', any
watchpoints you have set will be inactive until GDB reaches another kind
of breakpoint or the call completes.

   GDB automatically deletes watchpoints that watch local (automatic)
variables, or expressions that involve such variables, when they go out
of scope, that is, when the execution leaves the block in which these
variables were defined.  In particular, when the program being debugged
terminates, _all_ local variables go out of scope, and so only
watchpoints that watch global variables remain set.  If you rerun the
program, you will need to set all such watchpoints again.  One way of
doing that would be to set a code breakpoint at the entry to the 'main'
function and when it breaks, set all the watchpoints.

   In multi-threaded programs, watchpoints will detect changes to the
watched expression from every thread.

     _Warning:_ In multi-threaded programs, software watchpoints have
     only limited usefulness.  If GDB creates a software watchpoint, it
     can only watch the value of an expression _in a single thread_.  If
     you are confident that the expression can only change due to the
     current thread's activity (and if you are also confident that no
     other thread can become current), then you can use software
     watchpoints as usual.  However, GDB may not notice when a
     non-current thread's activity changes the expression.  (Hardware
     watchpoints, in contrast, watch an expression in all threads.)

   *Note set remote hardware-watchpoint-limit::.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Set Catchpoints,  Next: Delete Breaks,  Prev: Set Watchpoints,  Up: Breakpoints

5.1.3 Setting Catchpoints
-------------------------

You can use "catchpoints" to cause the debugger to stop for certain
kinds of program events, such as C++ exceptions or the loading of a
shared library.  Use the 'catch' command to set a catchpoint.

'catch EVENT'
     Stop when EVENT occurs.  The EVENT can be any of the following:

     'throw [REGEXP]'
     'rethrow [REGEXP]'
     'catch [REGEXP]'
          The throwing, re-throwing, or catching of a C++ exception.

          If REGEXP is given, then only exceptions whose type matches
          the regular expression will be caught.

          The convenience variable '$_exception' is available at an
          exception-related catchpoint, on some systems.  This holds the
          exception being thrown.

          There are currently some limitations to C++ exception handling
          in GDB:

             * The support for these commands is system-dependent.
               Currently, only systems using the 'gnu-v3' C++ ABI (*note
               ABI::) are supported.

             * The regular expression feature and the '$_exception'
               convenience variable rely on the presence of some SDT
               probes in 'libstdc++'.  If these probes are not present,
               then these features cannot be used.  These probes were
               first available in the GCC 4.8 release, but whether or
               not they are available in your GCC also depends on how it
               was built.

             * The '$_exception' convenience variable is only valid at
               the instruction at which an exception-related catchpoint
               is set.

             * When an exception-related catchpoint is hit, GDB stops at
               a location in the system library which implements runtime
               exception support for C++, usually 'libstdc++'.  You can
               use 'up' (*note Selection::) to get to your code.

             * If you call a function interactively, GDB normally
               returns control to you when the function has finished
               executing.  If the call raises an exception, however, the
               call may bypass the mechanism that returns control to you
               and cause your program either to abort or to simply
               continue running until it hits a breakpoint, catches a
               signal that GDB is listening for, or exits.  This is the
               case even if you set a catchpoint for the exception;
               catchpoints on exceptions are disabled within interactive
               calls.  *Note Calling::, for information on controlling
               this with 'set unwind-on-terminating-exception'.

             * You cannot raise an exception interactively.

             * You cannot install an exception handler interactively.

     'exception [NAME]'
          An Ada exception being raised.  If an exception name is
          specified at the end of the command (eg 'catch exception
          Program_Error'), the debugger will stop only when this
          specific exception is raised.  Otherwise, the debugger stops
          execution when any Ada exception is raised.

          When inserting an exception catchpoint on a user-defined
          exception whose name is identical to one of the exceptions
          defined by the language, the fully qualified name must be used
          as the exception name.  Otherwise, GDB will assume that it
          should stop on the pre-defined exception rather than the
          user-defined one.  For instance, assuming an exception called
          'Constraint_Error' is defined in package 'Pck', then the
          command to use to catch such exceptions is 'catch exception
          Pck.Constraint_Error'.

          The convenience variable '$_ada_exception' holds the address
          of the exception being thrown.  This can be useful when
          setting a condition for such a catchpoint.

     'exception unhandled'
          An exception that was raised but is not handled by the
          program.  The convenience variable '$_ada_exception' is set as
          for 'catch exception'.

     'handlers [NAME]'
          An Ada exception being handled.  If an exception name is
          specified at the end of the command (eg 'catch handlers
          Program_Error'), the debugger will stop only when this
          specific exception is handled.  Otherwise, the debugger stops
          execution when any Ada exception is handled.

          When inserting a handlers catchpoint on a user-defined
          exception whose name is identical to one of the exceptions
          defined by the language, the fully qualified name must be used
          as the exception name.  Otherwise, GDB will assume that it
          should stop on the pre-defined exception rather than the
          user-defined one.  For instance, assuming an exception called
          'Constraint_Error' is defined in package 'Pck', then the
          command to use to catch such exceptions handling is 'catch
          handlers Pck.Constraint_Error'.

          The convenience variable '$_ada_exception' is set as for
          'catch exception'.

     'assert'
          A failed Ada assertion.  Note that the convenience variable
          '$_ada_exception' is _not_ set by this catchpoint.

     'exec'
          A call to 'exec'.

     'syscall'
     'syscall [NAME | NUMBER | group:GROUPNAME | g:GROUPNAME] ...'
          A call to or return from a system call, a.k.a. "syscall".  A
          syscall is a mechanism for application programs to request a
          service from the operating system (OS) or one of the OS system
          services.  GDB can catch some or all of the syscalls issued by
          the debuggee, and show the related information for each
          syscall.  If no argument is specified, calls to and returns
          from all system calls will be caught.

          NAME can be any system call name that is valid for the
          underlying OS. Just what syscalls are valid depends on the OS.
          On GNU and Unix systems, you can find the full list of valid
          syscall names on '/usr/include/asm/unistd.h'.

          Normally, GDB knows in advance which syscalls are valid for
          each OS, so you can use the GDB command-line completion
          facilities (*note command completion: Completion.) to list the
          available choices.

          You may also specify the system call numerically.  A syscall's
          number is the value passed to the OS's syscall dispatcher to
          identify the requested service.  When you specify the syscall
          by its name, GDB uses its database of syscalls to convert the
          name into the corresponding numeric code, but using the number
          directly may be useful if GDB's database does not have the
          complete list of syscalls on your system (e.g., because GDB
          lags behind the OS upgrades).

          You may specify a group of related syscalls to be caught at
          once using the 'group:' syntax ('g:' is a shorter equivalent).
          For instance, on some platforms GDB allows you to catch all
          network related syscalls, by passing the argument
          'group:network' to 'catch syscall'.  Note that not all syscall
          groups are available in every system.  You can use the command
          completion facilities (*note command completion: Completion.)
          to list the syscall groups available on your environment.

          The example below illustrates how this command works if you
          don't provide arguments to it:

               (gdb) catch syscall
               Catchpoint 1 (syscall)
               (gdb) r
               Starting program: /tmp/catch-syscall

               Catchpoint 1 (call to syscall 'close'), \
               	   0xffffe424 in __kernel_vsyscall ()
               (gdb) c
               Continuing.

               Catchpoint 1 (returned from syscall 'close'), \
               	0xffffe424 in __kernel_vsyscall ()
               (gdb)

          Here is an example of catching a system call by name:

               (gdb) catch syscall chroot
               Catchpoint 1 (syscall 'chroot' [61])
               (gdb) r
               Starting program: /tmp/catch-syscall

               Catchpoint 1 (call to syscall 'chroot'), \
               		   0xffffe424 in __kernel_vsyscall ()
               (gdb) c
               Continuing.

               Catchpoint 1 (returned from syscall 'chroot'), \
               	0xffffe424 in __kernel_vsyscall ()
               (gdb)

          An example of specifying a system call numerically.  In the
          case below, the syscall number has a corresponding entry in
          the XML file, so GDB finds its name and prints it:

               (gdb) catch syscall 252
               Catchpoint 1 (syscall(s) 'exit_group')
               (gdb) r
               Starting program: /tmp/catch-syscall

               Catchpoint 1 (call to syscall 'exit_group'), \
               		   0xffffe424 in __kernel_vsyscall ()
               (gdb) c
               Continuing.

               Program exited normally.
               (gdb)

          Here is an example of catching a syscall group:

               (gdb) catch syscall group:process
               Catchpoint 1 (syscalls 'exit' [1] 'fork' [2] 'waitpid' [7]
               'execve' [11] 'wait4' [114] 'clone' [120] 'vfork' [190]
               'exit_group' [252] 'waitid' [284] 'unshare' [310])
               (gdb) r
               Starting program: /tmp/catch-syscall

               Catchpoint 1 (call to syscall fork), 0x00007ffff7df4e27 in open64 ()
                  from /lib64/ld-linux-x86-64.so.2

               (gdb) c
               Continuing.

          However, there can be situations when there is no
          corresponding name in XML file for that syscall number.  In
          this case, GDB prints a warning message saying that it was not
          able to find the syscall name, but the catchpoint will be set
          anyway.  See the example below:

               (gdb) catch syscall 764
               warning: The number '764' does not represent a known syscall.
               Catchpoint 2 (syscall 764)
               (gdb)

          If you configure GDB using the '--without-expat' option, it
          will not be able to display syscall names.  Also, if your
          architecture does not have an XML file describing its system
          calls, you will not be able to see the syscall names.  It is
          important to notice that these two features are used for
          accessing the syscall name database.  In either case, you will
          see a warning like this:

               (gdb) catch syscall
               warning: Could not open "syscalls/i386-linux.xml"
               warning: Could not load the syscall XML file 'syscalls/i386-linux.xml'.
               GDB will not be able to display syscall names.
               Catchpoint 1 (syscall)
               (gdb)

          Of course, the file name will change depending on your
          architecture and system.

          Still using the example above, you can also try to catch a
          syscall by its number.  In this case, you would see something
          like:

               (gdb) catch syscall 252
               Catchpoint 1 (syscall(s) 252)

          Again, in this case GDB would not be able to display syscall's
          names.

     'fork'
          A call to 'fork'.

     'vfork'
          A call to 'vfork'.

     'load [REGEXP]'
     'unload [REGEXP]'
          The loading or unloading of a shared library.  If REGEXP is
          given, then the catchpoint will stop only if the regular
          expression matches one of the affected libraries.

     'signal [SIGNAL... | 'all']'
          The delivery of a signal.

          With no arguments, this catchpoint will catch any signal that
          is not used internally by GDB, specifically, all signals
          except 'SIGTRAP' and 'SIGINT'.

          With the argument 'all', all signals, including those used by
          GDB, will be caught.  This argument cannot be used with other
          signal names.

          Otherwise, the arguments are a list of signal names as given
          to 'handle' (*note Signals::).  Only signals specified in this
          list will be caught.

          One reason that 'catch signal' can be more useful than
          'handle' is that you can attach commands and conditions to the
          catchpoint.

          When a signal is caught by a catchpoint, the signal's 'stop'
          and 'print' settings, as specified by 'handle', are ignored.
          However, whether the signal is still delivered to the inferior
          depends on the 'pass' setting; this can be changed in the
          catchpoint's commands.

'tcatch EVENT'
     Set a catchpoint that is enabled only for one stop.  The catchpoint
     is automatically deleted after the first time the event is caught.

   Use the 'info break' command to list the current catchpoints.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Delete Breaks,  Next: Disabling,  Prev: Set Catchpoints,  Up: Breakpoints

5.1.4 Deleting Breakpoints
--------------------------

It is often necessary to eliminate a breakpoint, watchpoint, or
catchpoint once it has done its job and you no longer want your program
to stop there.  This is called "deleting" the breakpoint.  A breakpoint
that has been deleted no longer exists; it is forgotten.

   With the 'clear' command you can delete breakpoints according to
where they are in your program.  With the 'delete' command you can
delete individual breakpoints, watchpoints, or catchpoints by specifying
their breakpoint numbers.

   It is not necessary to delete a breakpoint to proceed past it.  GDB
automatically ignores breakpoints on the first instruction to be
executed when you continue execution without changing the execution
address.

'clear'
     Delete any breakpoints at the next instruction to be executed in
     the selected stack frame (*note Selecting a Frame: Selection.).
     When the innermost frame is selected, this is a good way to delete
     a breakpoint where your program just stopped.

'clear LOCATION'
     Delete any breakpoints set at the specified LOCATION.  *Note
     Specify Location::, for the various forms of LOCATION; the most
     useful ones are listed below:

     'clear FUNCTION'
     'clear FILENAME:FUNCTION'
          Delete any breakpoints set at entry to the named FUNCTION.

     'clear LINENUM'
     'clear FILENAME:LINENUM'
          Delete any breakpoints set at or within the code of the
          specified LINENUM of the specified FILENAME.

'delete [breakpoints] [LIST...]'
     Delete the breakpoints, watchpoints, or catchpoints of the
     breakpoint list specified as argument.  If no argument is
     specified, delete all breakpoints (GDB asks confirmation, unless
     you have 'set confirm off').  You can abbreviate this command as
     'd'.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Disabling,  Next: Conditions,  Prev: Delete Breaks,  Up: Breakpoints

5.1.5 Disabling Breakpoints
---------------------------

Rather than deleting a breakpoint, watchpoint, or catchpoint, you might
prefer to "disable" it.  This makes the breakpoint inoperative as if it
had been deleted, but remembers the information on the breakpoint so
that you can "enable" it again later.

   You disable and enable breakpoints, watchpoints, and catchpoints with
the 'enable' and 'disable' commands, optionally specifying one or more
breakpoint numbers as arguments.  Use 'info break' to print a list of
all breakpoints, watchpoints, and catchpoints if you do not know which
numbers to use.

   Disabling and enabling a breakpoint that has multiple locations
affects all of its locations.

   A breakpoint, watchpoint, or catchpoint can have any of several
different states of enablement:

   * Enabled.  The breakpoint stops your program.  A breakpoint set with
     the 'break' command starts out in this state.
   * Disabled.  The breakpoint has no effect on your program.
   * Enabled once.  The breakpoint stops your program, but then becomes
     disabled.
   * Enabled for a count.  The breakpoint stops your program for the
     next N times, then becomes disabled.
   * Enabled for deletion.  The breakpoint stops your program, but
     immediately after it does so it is deleted permanently.  A
     breakpoint set with the 'tbreak' command starts out in this state.

   You can use the following commands to enable or disable breakpoints,
watchpoints, and catchpoints:

'disable [breakpoints] [LIST...]'
     Disable the specified breakpoints--or all breakpoints, if none are
     listed.  A disabled breakpoint has no effect but is not forgotten.
     All options such as ignore-counts, conditions and commands are
     remembered in case the breakpoint is enabled again later.  You may
     abbreviate 'disable' as 'dis'.

'enable [breakpoints] [LIST...]'
     Enable the specified breakpoints (or all defined breakpoints).
     They become effective once again in stopping your program.

'enable [breakpoints] once LIST...'
     Enable the specified breakpoints temporarily.  GDB disables any of
     these breakpoints immediately after stopping your program.

'enable [breakpoints] count COUNT LIST...'
     Enable the specified breakpoints temporarily.  GDB records COUNT
     with each of the specified breakpoints, and decrements a
     breakpoint's count when it is hit.  When any count reaches 0, GDB
     disables that breakpoint.  If a breakpoint has an ignore count
     (*note Break Conditions: Conditions.), that will be decremented to
     0 before COUNT is affected.

'enable [breakpoints] delete LIST...'
     Enable the specified breakpoints to work once, then die.  GDB
     deletes any of these breakpoints as soon as your program stops
     there.  Breakpoints set by the 'tbreak' command start out in this
     state.

   Except for a breakpoint set with 'tbreak' (*note Setting Breakpoints:
Set Breaks.), breakpoints that you set are initially enabled;
subsequently, they become disabled or enabled only when you use one of
the commands above.  (The command 'until' can set and delete a
breakpoint of its own, but it does not change the state of your other
breakpoints; see *note Continuing and Stepping: Continuing and
Stepping.)

File: gdb.info,  Node: Conditions,  Next: Break Commands,  Prev: Disabling,  Up: Breakpoints

5.1.6 Break Conditions
----------------------

The simplest sort of breakpoint breaks every time your program reaches a
specified place.  You can also specify a "condition" for a breakpoint.
A condition is just a Boolean expression in your programming language
(*note Expressions: Expressions.).  A breakpoint with a condition
evaluates the expression each time your program reaches it, and your
program stops only if the condition is _true_.

   This is the converse of using assertions for program validation; in
that situation, you want to stop when the assertion is violated--that
is, when the condition is false.  In C, if you want to test an assertion
expressed by the condition ASSERT, you should set the condition '!
ASSERT' on the appropriate breakpoint.

   Conditions are also accepted for watchpoints; you may not need them,
since a watchpoint is inspecting the value of an expression anyhow--but
it might be simpler, say, to just set a watchpoint on a variable name,
and specify a condition that tests whether the new value is an
interesting one.

   Break conditions can have side effects, and may even call functions
in your program.  This can be useful, for example, to activate functions
that log program progress, or to use your own print functions to format
special data structures.  The effects are completely predictable unless
there is another enabled breakpoint at the same address.  (In that case,
GDB might see the other breakpoint first and stop your program without
checking the condition of this one.)  Note that breakpoint commands are
usually more convenient and flexible than break conditions for the
purpose of performing side effects when a breakpoint is reached (*note
Breakpoint Command Lists: Break Commands.).

   Breakpoint conditions can also be evaluated on the target's side if
the target supports it.  Instead of evaluating the conditions locally,
GDB encodes the expression into an agent expression (*note Agent
Expressions::) suitable for execution on the target, independently of
GDB.  Global variables become raw memory locations, locals become stack
accesses, and so forth.

   In this case, GDB will only be notified of a breakpoint trigger when
its condition evaluates to true.  This mechanism may provide faster
response times depending on the performance characteristics of the
target since it does not need to keep GDB informed about every
breakpoint trigger, even those with false conditions.

   Break conditions can be specified when a breakpoint is set, by using
'if' in the arguments to the 'break' command.  *Note Setting
Breakpoints: Set Breaks.  They can also be changed at any time with the
'condition' command.

   You can also use the 'if' keyword with the 'watch' command.  The
'catch' command does not recognize the 'if' keyword; 'condition' is the
only way to impose a further condition on a catchpoint.

'condition BNUM EXPRESSION'
     Specify EXPRESSION as the break condition for breakpoint,
     watchpoint, or catchpoint number BNUM.  After you set a condition,
     breakpoint BNUM stops your program only if the value of EXPRESSION
     is true (nonzero, in C). When you use 'condition', GDB checks
     EXPRESSION immediately for syntactic correctness, and to determine
     whether symbols in it have referents in the context of your
     breakpoint.  If EXPRESSION uses symbols not referenced in the
     context of the breakpoint, GDB prints an error message:

          No symbol "foo" in current context.

     GDB does not actually evaluate EXPRESSION at the time the
     'condition' command (or a command that sets a breakpoint with a
     condition, like 'break if ...') is given, however.  *Note
     Expressions: Expressions.

'condition BNUM'
     Remove the condition from breakpoint number BNUM.  It becomes an
     ordinary unconditional breakpoint.

   A special case of a breakpoint condition is to stop only when the
breakpoint has been reached a certain number of times.  This is so
useful that there is a special way to do it, using the "ignore count" of
the breakpoint.  Every breakpoint has an ignore count, which is an
integer.  Most of the time, the ignore count is zero, and therefore has
no effect.  But if your program reaches a breakpoint whose ignore count
is positive, then instead of stopping, it just decrements the ignore
count by one and continues.  As a result, if the ignore count value is
N, the breakpoint does not stop the next N times your program reaches
it.

'ignore BNUM COUNT'
     Set the ignore count of breakpoint number BNUM to COUNT.  The next
     COUNT times the breakpoint is reached, your program's execution
     does not stop; other than to decrement the ignore count, GDB takes
     no action.

     To make the breakpoint stop the next time it is reached, specify a
     count of zero.

     When you use 'continue' to resume execution of your program from a
     breakpoint, you can specify an ignore count directly as an argument
     to 'continue', rather than using 'ignore'.  *Note Continuing and
     Stepping: Continuing and Stepping.

     If a breakpoint has a positive ignore count and a condition, the
     condition is not checked.  Once the ignore count reaches zero, GDB
     resumes checking the condition.

     You could achieve the effect of the ignore count with a condition
     such as '$foo-- <= 0' using a debugger convenience variable that is
     decremented each time.  *Note Convenience Variables: Convenience
     Vars.

   Ignore counts apply to breakpoints, watchpoints, and catchpoints.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Break Commands,  Next: Dynamic printf,  Prev: Conditions,  Up: Breakpoints

5.1.7 Breakpoint Command Lists
------------------------------

You can give any breakpoint (or watchpoint or catchpoint) a series of
commands to execute when your program stops due to that breakpoint.  For
example, you might want to print the values of certain expressions, or
enable other breakpoints.

'commands [LIST...]'
'... COMMAND-LIST ...'
'end'
     Specify a list of commands for the given breakpoints.  The commands
     themselves appear on the following lines.  Type a line containing
     just 'end' to terminate the commands.

     To remove all commands from a breakpoint, type 'commands' and
     follow it immediately with 'end'; that is, give no commands.

     With no argument, 'commands' refers to the last breakpoint,
     watchpoint, or catchpoint set (not to the breakpoint most recently
     encountered).  If the most recent breakpoints were set with a
     single command, then the 'commands' will apply to all the
     breakpoints set by that command.  This applies to breakpoints set
     by 'rbreak', and also applies when a single 'break' command creates
     multiple breakpoints (*note Ambiguous Expressions: Ambiguous
     Expressions.).

   Pressing <RET> as a means of repeating the last GDB command is
disabled within a COMMAND-LIST.

   You can use breakpoint commands to start your program up again.
Simply use the 'continue' command, or 'step', or any other command that
resumes execution.

   Any other commands in the command list, after a command that resumes
execution, are ignored.  This is because any time you resume execution
(even with a simple 'next' or 'step'), you may encounter another
breakpoint--which could have its own command list, leading to
ambiguities about which list to execute.

   If the first command you specify in a command list is 'silent', the
usual message about stopping at a breakpoint is not printed.  This may
be desirable for breakpoints that are to print a specific message and
then continue.  If none of the remaining commands print anything, you
see no sign that the breakpoint was reached.  'silent' is meaningful
only at the beginning of a breakpoint command list.

   The commands 'echo', 'output', and 'printf' allow you to print
precisely controlled output, and are often useful in silent breakpoints.
*Note Commands for Controlled Output: Output.

   For example, here is how you could use breakpoint commands to print
the value of 'x' at entry to 'foo' whenever 'x' is positive.

     break foo if x>0
     commands
     silent
     printf "x is %d\n",x
     cont
     end

   One application for breakpoint commands is to compensate for one bug
so you can test for another.  Put a breakpoint just after the erroneous
line of code, give it a condition to detect the case in which something
erroneous has been done, and give it commands to assign correct values
to any variables that need them.  End with the 'continue' command so
that your program does not stop, and start with the 'silent' command so
that no output is produced.  Here is an example:

     break 403
     commands
     silent
     set x = y + 4
     cont
     end

File: gdb.info,  Node: Dynamic printf,  Next: Save Breakpoints,  Prev: Break Commands,  Up: Breakpoints

5.1.8 Dynamic printf
--------------------

The dynamic printf command 'dprintf' combines a breakpoint with
formatted printing of your program's data to give you the effect of
inserting 'printf' calls into your program on-the-fly, without having to
recompile it.

   In its most basic form, the output goes to the GDB console.  However,
you can set the variable 'dprintf-style' for alternate handling.  For
instance, you can ask to format the output by calling your program's
'printf' function.  This has the advantage that the characters go to the
program's output device, so they can recorded in redirects to files and
so forth.

   If you are doing remote debugging with a stub or agent, you can also
ask to have the printf handled by the remote agent.  In addition to
ensuring that the output goes to the remote program's device along with
any other output the program might produce, you can also ask that the
dprintf remain active even after disconnecting from the remote target.
Using the stub/agent is also more efficient, as it can do everything
without needing to communicate with GDB.

'dprintf LOCATION,TEMPLATE,EXPRESSION[,EXPRESSION...]'
     Whenever execution reaches LOCATION, print the values of one or
     more EXPRESSIONS under the control of the string TEMPLATE.  To
     print several values, separate them with commas.

'set dprintf-style STYLE'
     Set the dprintf output to be handled in one of several different
     styles enumerated below.  A change of style affects all existing
     dynamic printfs immediately.  (If you need individual control over
     the print commands, simply define normal breakpoints with
     explicitly-supplied command lists.)

     'gdb'
          Handle the output using the GDB 'printf' command.

     'call'
          Handle the output by calling a function in your program
          (normally 'printf').

     'agent'
          Have the remote debugging agent (such as 'gdbserver') handle
          the output itself.  This style is only available for agents
          that support running commands on the target.

'set dprintf-function FUNCTION'
     Set the function to call if the dprintf style is 'call'.  By
     default its value is 'printf'.  You may set it to any expression.
     that GDB can evaluate to a function, as per the 'call' command.

'set dprintf-channel CHANNEL'
     Set a "channel" for dprintf.  If set to a non-empty value, GDB will
     evaluate it as an expression and pass the result as a first
     argument to the 'dprintf-function', in the manner of 'fprintf' and
     similar functions.  Otherwise, the dprintf format string will be
     the first argument, in the manner of 'printf'.

     As an example, if you wanted 'dprintf' output to go to a logfile
     that is a standard I/O stream assigned to the variable 'mylog', you
     could do the following:

          (gdb) set dprintf-style call
          (gdb) set dprintf-function fprintf
          (gdb) set dprintf-channel mylog
          (gdb) dprintf 25,"at line 25, glob=%d\n",glob
          Dprintf 1 at 0x123456: file main.c, line 25.
          (gdb) info break
          1       dprintf        keep y   0x00123456 in main at main.c:25
                  call (void) fprintf (mylog,"at line 25, glob=%d\n",glob)
                  continue
          (gdb)

     Note that the 'info break' displays the dynamic printf commands as
     normal breakpoint commands; you can thus easily see the effect of
     the variable settings.

'set disconnected-dprintf on'
'set disconnected-dprintf off'
     Choose whether 'dprintf' commands should continue to run if GDB has
     disconnected from the target.  This only applies if the
     'dprintf-style' is 'agent'.

'show disconnected-dprintf off'
     Show the current choice for disconnected 'dprintf'.

   GDB does not check the validity of function and channel, relying on
you to supply values that are meaningful for the contexts in which they
are being used.  For instance, the function and channel may be the
values of local variables, but if that is the case, then all enabled
dynamic prints must be at locations within the scope of those locals.
If evaluation fails, GDB will report an error.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Save Breakpoints,  Next: Static Probe Points,  Prev: Dynamic printf,  Up: Breakpoints

5.1.9 How to Save Breakpoints to a File
---------------------------------------

To save breakpoint definitions to a file use the 'save breakpoints'
command.

'save breakpoints [FILENAME]'
     This command saves all current breakpoint definitions together with
     their commands and ignore counts, into a file 'FILENAME' suitable
     for use in a later debugging session.  This includes all types of
     breakpoints (breakpoints, watchpoints, catchpoints, tracepoints).
     To read the saved breakpoint definitions, use the 'source' command
     (*note Command Files::).  Note that watchpoints with expressions
     involving local variables may fail to be recreated because it may
     not be possible to access the context where the watchpoint is valid
     anymore.  Because the saved breakpoint definitions are simply a
     sequence of GDB commands that recreate the breakpoints, you can
     edit the file in your favorite editing program, and remove the
     breakpoint definitions you're not interested in, or that can no
     longer be recreated.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Static Probe Points,  Next: Error in Breakpoints,  Prev: Save Breakpoints,  Up: Breakpoints

5.1.10 Static Probe Points
--------------------------

GDB supports "SDT" probes in the code.  SDT stands for Statically
Defined Tracing, and the probes are designed to have a tiny runtime code
and data footprint, and no dynamic relocations.

   Currently, the following types of probes are supported on
ELF-compatible systems:

   * 'SystemTap' (<http://sourceware.org/systemtap/>) SDT probes(1).
     'SystemTap' probes are usable from assembly, C and C++
     languages(2).

   * 'DTrace' (<http://oss.oracle.com/projects/DTrace>) USDT probes.
     'DTrace' probes are usable from C and C++ languages.

   Some 'SystemTap' probes have an associated semaphore variable; for
instance, this happens automatically if you defined your probe using a
DTrace-style '.d' file.  If your probe has a semaphore, GDB will
automatically enable it when you specify a breakpoint using the
'-probe-stap' notation.  But, if you put a breakpoint at a probe's
location by some other method (e.g., 'break file:line'), then GDB will
not automatically set the semaphore.  'DTrace' probes do not support
semaphores.

   You can examine the available static static probes using 'info
probes', with optional arguments:

'info probes [TYPE] [PROVIDER [NAME [OBJFILE]]]'
     If given, TYPE is either 'stap' for listing 'SystemTap' probes or
     'dtrace' for listing 'DTrace' probes.  If omitted all probes are
     listed regardless of their types.

     If given, PROVIDER is a regular expression used to match against
     provider names when selecting which probes to list.  If omitted,
     probes by all probes from all providers are listed.

     If given, NAME is a regular expression to match against probe names
     when selecting which probes to list.  If omitted, probe names are
     not considered when deciding whether to display them.

     If given, OBJFILE is a regular expression used to select which
     object files (executable or shared libraries) to examine.  If not
     given, all object files are considered.

'info probes all'
     List the available static probes, from all types.

   Some probe points can be enabled and/or disabled.  The effect of
enabling or disabling a probe depends on the type of probe being
handled.  Some 'DTrace' probes can be enabled or disabled, but
'SystemTap' probes cannot be disabled.

   You can enable (or disable) one or more probes using the following
commands, with optional arguments:

'enable probes [PROVIDER [NAME [OBJFILE]]]'
     If given, PROVIDER is a regular expression used to match against
     provider names when selecting which probes to enable.  If omitted,
     all probes from all providers are enabled.

     If given, NAME is a regular expression to match against probe names
     when selecting which probes to enable.  If omitted, probe names are
     not considered when deciding whether to enable them.

     If given, OBJFILE is a regular expression used to select which
     object files (executable or shared libraries) to examine.  If not
     given, all object files are considered.

'disable probes [PROVIDER [NAME [OBJFILE]]]'
     See the 'enable probes' command above for a description of the
     optional arguments accepted by this command.

   A probe may specify up to twelve arguments.  These are available at
the point at which the probe is defined--that is, when the current PC is
at the probe's location.  The arguments are available using the
convenience variables (*note Convenience Vars::)
'$_probe_arg0'...'$_probe_arg11'.  In 'SystemTap' probes each probe
argument is an integer of the appropriate size; types are not preserved.
In 'DTrace' probes types are preserved provided that they are recognized
as such by GDB; otherwise the value of the probe argument will be a long
integer.  The convenience variable '$_probe_argc' holds the number of
arguments at the current probe point.

   These variables are always available, but attempts to access them at
any location other than a probe point will cause GDB to give an error
message.

   ---------- Footnotes ----------

   (1) See
<http://sourceware.org/systemtap/wiki/AddingUserSpaceProbingToApps> for
more information on how to add 'SystemTap' SDT probes in your
applications.

   (2) See
<http://sourceware.org/systemtap/wiki/UserSpaceProbeImplementation> for
a good reference on how the SDT probes are implemented.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Error in Breakpoints,  Next: Breakpoint-related Warnings,  Prev: Static Probe Points,  Up: Breakpoints

5.1.11 "Cannot insert breakpoints"
----------------------------------

If you request too many active hardware-assisted breakpoints and
watchpoints, you will see this error message:

     Stopped; cannot insert breakpoints.
     You may have requested too many hardware breakpoints and watchpoints.

This message is printed when you attempt to resume the program, since
only then GDB knows exactly how many hardware breakpoints and
watchpoints it needs to insert.

   When this message is printed, you need to disable or remove some of
the hardware-assisted breakpoints and watchpoints, and then continue.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Breakpoint-related Warnings,  Prev: Error in Breakpoints,  Up: Breakpoints

5.1.12 "Breakpoint address adjusted..."
---------------------------------------

Some processor architectures place constraints on the addresses at which
breakpoints may be placed.  For architectures thus constrained, GDB will
attempt to adjust the breakpoint's address to comply with the
constraints dictated by the architecture.

   One example of such an architecture is the Fujitsu FR-V. The FR-V is
a VLIW architecture in which a number of RISC-like instructions may be
bundled together for parallel execution.  The FR-V architecture
constrains the location of a breakpoint instruction within such a bundle
to the instruction with the lowest address.  GDB honors this constraint
by adjusting a breakpoint's address to the first in the bundle.

   It is not uncommon for optimized code to have bundles which contain
instructions from different source statements, thus it may happen that a
breakpoint's address will be adjusted from one source statement to
another.  Since this adjustment may significantly alter GDB's breakpoint
related behavior from what the user expects, a warning is printed when
the breakpoint is first set and also when the breakpoint is hit.

   A warning like the one below is printed when setting a breakpoint
that's been subject to address adjustment:

     warning: Breakpoint address adjusted from 0x00010414 to 0x00010410.

   Such warnings are printed both for user settable and GDB's internal
breakpoints.  If you see one of these warnings, you should verify that a
breakpoint set at the adjusted address will have the desired affect.  If
not, the breakpoint in question may be removed and other breakpoints may
be set which will have the desired behavior.  E.g., it may be sufficient
to place the breakpoint at a later instruction.  A conditional
breakpoint may also be useful in some cases to prevent the breakpoint
from triggering too often.

   GDB will also issue a warning when stopping at one of these adjusted
breakpoints:

     warning: Breakpoint 1 address previously adjusted from 0x00010414
     to 0x00010410.

   When this warning is encountered, it may be too late to take remedial
action except in cases where the breakpoint is hit earlier or more
frequently than expected.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Continuing and Stepping,  Next: Skipping Over Functions and Files,  Prev: Breakpoints,  Up: Stopping

