5.5 Stopping and Starting Multi-Thread Programs
===============================================

GDB supports debugging programs with multiple threads (*note Debugging
Programs with Multiple Threads: Threads.).  There are two modes of
controlling execution of your program within the debugger.  In the
default mode, referred to as "all-stop mode", when any thread in your
program stops (for example, at a breakpoint or while being stepped), all
other threads in the program are also stopped by GDB.  On some targets,
GDB also supports "non-stop mode", in which other threads can continue
to run freely while you examine the stopped thread in the debugger.

* Menu:

* All-Stop Mode::		All threads stop when GDB takes control
* Non-Stop Mode::		Other threads continue to execute
* Background Execution::	Running your program asynchronously
* Thread-Specific Breakpoints::	Controlling breakpoints
* Interrupted System Calls::	GDB may interfere with system calls
* Observer Mode::               GDB does not alter program behavior

File: gdb.info,  Node: All-Stop Mode,  Next: Non-Stop Mode,  Up: Thread Stops

5.5.1 All-Stop Mode
-------------------

In all-stop mode, whenever your program stops under GDB for any reason,
_all_ threads of execution stop, not just the current thread.  This
allows you to examine the overall state of the program, including
switching between threads, without worrying that things may change
underfoot.

   Conversely, whenever you restart the program, _all_ threads start
executing.  _This is true even when single-stepping_ with commands like
'step' or 'next'.

   In particular, GDB cannot single-step all threads in lockstep.  Since
thread scheduling is up to your debugging target's operating system (not
controlled by GDB), other threads may execute more than one statement
while the current thread completes a single step.  Moreover, in general
other threads stop in the middle of a statement, rather than at a clean
statement boundary, when the program stops.

   You might even find your program stopped in another thread after
continuing or even single-stepping.  This happens whenever some other
thread runs into a breakpoint, a signal, or an exception before the
first thread completes whatever you requested.

   Whenever GDB stops your program, due to a breakpoint or a signal, it
automatically selects the thread where that breakpoint or signal
happened.  GDB alerts you to the context switch with a message such as
'[Switching to Thread N]' to identify the thread.

   On some OSes, you can modify GDB's default behavior by locking the OS
scheduler to allow only a single thread to run.

'set scheduler-locking MODE'
     Set the scheduler locking mode.  It applies to normal execution,
     record mode, and replay mode.  If it is 'off', then there is no
     locking and any thread may run at any time.  If 'on', then only the
     current thread may run when the inferior is resumed.  The 'step'
     mode optimizes for single-stepping; it prevents other threads from
     preempting the current thread while you are stepping, so that the
     focus of debugging does not change unexpectedly.  Other threads
     never get a chance to run when you step, and they are completely
     free to run when you use commands like 'continue', 'until', or
     'finish'.  However, unless another thread hits a breakpoint during
     its timeslice, GDB does not change the current thread away from the
     thread that you are debugging.  The 'replay' mode behaves like
     'off' in record mode and like 'on' in replay mode.

'show scheduler-locking'
     Display the current scheduler locking mode.

   By default, when you issue one of the execution commands such as
'continue', 'next' or 'step', GDB allows only threads of the current
inferior to run.  For example, if GDB is attached to two inferiors, each
with two threads, the 'continue' command resumes only the two threads of
the current inferior.  This is useful, for example, when you debug a
program that forks and you want to hold the parent stopped (so that, for
instance, it doesn't run to exit), while you debug the child.  In other
situations, you may not be interested in inspecting the current state of
any of the processes GDB is attached to, and you may want to resume them
all until some breakpoint is hit.  In the latter case, you can instruct
GDB to allow all threads of all the inferiors to run with the
'set schedule-multiple' command.

'set schedule-multiple'
     Set the mode for allowing threads of multiple processes to be
     resumed when an execution command is issued.  When 'on', all
     threads of all processes are allowed to run.  When 'off', only the
     threads of the current process are resumed.  The default is 'off'.
     The 'scheduler-locking' mode takes precedence when set to 'on', or
     while you are stepping and set to 'step'.

'show schedule-multiple'
     Display the current mode for resuming the execution of threads of
     multiple processes.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Non-Stop Mode,  Next: Background Execution,  Prev: All-Stop Mode,  Up: Thread Stops

5.5.2 Non-Stop Mode
-------------------

For some multi-threaded targets, GDB supports an optional mode of
operation in which you can examine stopped program threads in the
debugger while other threads continue to execute freely.  This minimizes
intrusion when debugging live systems, such as programs where some
threads have real-time constraints or must continue to respond to
external events.  This is referred to as "non-stop" mode.

   In non-stop mode, when a thread stops to report a debugging event,
_only_ that thread is stopped; GDB does not stop other threads as well,
in contrast to the all-stop mode behavior.  Additionally, execution
commands such as 'continue' and 'step' apply by default only to the
current thread in non-stop mode, rather than all threads as in all-stop
mode.  This allows you to control threads explicitly in ways that are
not possible in all-stop mode -- for example, stepping one thread while
allowing others to run freely, stepping one thread while holding all
others stopped, or stepping several threads independently and
simultaneously.

   To enter non-stop mode, use this sequence of commands before you run
or attach to your program:

     # If using the CLI, pagination breaks non-stop.
     set pagination off

     # Finally, turn it on!
     set non-stop on

   You can use these commands to manipulate the non-stop mode setting:

'set non-stop on'
     Enable selection of non-stop mode.
'set non-stop off'
     Disable selection of non-stop mode.
'show non-stop'
     Show the current non-stop enablement setting.

   Note these commands only reflect whether non-stop mode is enabled,
not whether the currently-executing program is being run in non-stop
mode.  In particular, the 'set non-stop' preference is only consulted
when GDB starts or connects to the target program, and it is generally
not possible to switch modes once debugging has started.  Furthermore,
since not all targets support non-stop mode, even when you have enabled
non-stop mode, GDB may still fall back to all-stop operation by default.

   In non-stop mode, all execution commands apply only to the current
thread by default.  That is, 'continue' only continues one thread.  To
continue all threads, issue 'continue -a' or 'c -a'.

   You can use GDB's background execution commands (*note Background
Execution::) to run some threads in the background while you continue to
examine or step others from GDB.  The MI execution commands (*note
GDB/MI Program Execution::) are always executed asynchronously in
non-stop mode.

   Suspending execution is done with the 'interrupt' command when
running in the background, or 'Ctrl-c' during foreground execution.  In
all-stop mode, this stops the whole process; but in non-stop mode the
interrupt applies only to the current thread.  To stop the whole
program, use 'interrupt -a'.

   Other execution commands do not currently support the '-a' option.

   In non-stop mode, when a thread stops, GDB doesn't automatically make
that thread current, as it does in all-stop mode.  This is because the
thread stop notifications are asynchronous with respect to GDB's command
interpreter, and it would be confusing if GDB unexpectedly changed to a
different thread just as you entered a command to operate on the
previously current thread.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Background Execution,  Next: Thread-Specific Breakpoints,  Prev: Non-Stop Mode,  Up: Thread Stops

5.5.3 Background Execution
--------------------------

GDB's execution commands have two variants: the normal foreground
(synchronous) behavior, and a background (asynchronous) behavior.  In
foreground execution, GDB waits for the program to report that some
thread has stopped before prompting for another command.  In background
execution, GDB immediately gives a command prompt so that you can issue
other commands while your program runs.

   If the target doesn't support async mode, GDB issues an error message
if you attempt to use the background execution commands.

   To specify background execution, add a '&' to the command.  For
example, the background form of the 'continue' command is 'continue&',
or just 'c&'.  The execution commands that accept background execution
are:

'run'
     *Note Starting your Program: Starting.

'attach'
     *Note Debugging an Already-running Process: Attach.

'step'
     *Note step: Continuing and Stepping.

'stepi'
     *Note stepi: Continuing and Stepping.

'next'
     *Note next: Continuing and Stepping.

'nexti'
     *Note nexti: Continuing and Stepping.

'continue'
     *Note continue: Continuing and Stepping.

'finish'
     *Note finish: Continuing and Stepping.

'until'
     *Note until: Continuing and Stepping.

   Background execution is especially useful in conjunction with
non-stop mode for debugging programs with multiple threads; see *note
Non-Stop Mode::.  However, you can also use these commands in the normal
all-stop mode with the restriction that you cannot issue another
execution command until the previous one finishes.  Examples of commands
that are valid in all-stop mode while the program is running include
'help' and 'info break'.

   You can interrupt your program while it is running in the background
by using the 'interrupt' command.

'interrupt'
'interrupt -a'

     Suspend execution of the running program.  In all-stop mode,
     'interrupt' stops the whole process, but in non-stop mode, it stops
     only the current thread.  To stop the whole program in non-stop
     mode, use 'interrupt -a'.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Thread-Specific Breakpoints,  Next: Interrupted System Calls,  Prev: Background Execution,  Up: Thread Stops

5.5.4 Thread-Specific Breakpoints
---------------------------------

When your program has multiple threads (*note Debugging Programs with
Multiple Threads: Threads.), you can choose whether to set breakpoints
on all threads, or on a particular thread.

'break LOCATION thread THREAD-ID'
'break LOCATION thread THREAD-ID if ...'
     LOCATION specifies source lines; there are several ways of writing
     them (*note Specify Location::), but the effect is always to
     specify some source line.

     Use the qualifier 'thread THREAD-ID' with a breakpoint command to
     specify that you only want GDB to stop the program when a
     particular thread reaches this breakpoint.  The THREAD-ID specifier
     is one of the thread identifiers assigned by GDB, shown in the
     first column of the 'info threads' display.

     If you do not specify 'thread THREAD-ID' when you set a breakpoint,
     the breakpoint applies to _all_ threads of your program.

     You can use the 'thread' qualifier on conditional breakpoints as
     well; in this case, place 'thread THREAD-ID' before or after the
     breakpoint condition, like this:

          (gdb) break frik.c:13 thread 28 if bartab > lim

   Thread-specific breakpoints are automatically deleted when GDB
detects the corresponding thread is no longer in the thread list.  For
example:

     (gdb) c
     Thread-specific breakpoint 3 deleted - thread 28 no longer in the thread list.

   There are several ways for a thread to disappear, such as a regular
thread exit, but also when you detach from the process with the 'detach'
command (*note Debugging an Already-running Process: Attach.), or if GDB
loses the remote connection (*note Remote Debugging::), etc.  Note that
with some targets, GDB is only able to detect a thread has exited when
the user explictly asks for the thread list with the 'info threads'
command.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Interrupted System Calls,  Next: Observer Mode,  Prev: Thread-Specific Breakpoints,  Up: Thread Stops

5.5.5 Interrupted System Calls
------------------------------

There is an unfortunate side effect when using GDB to debug
multi-threaded programs.  If one thread stops for a breakpoint, or for
some other reason, and another thread is blocked in a system call, then
the system call may return prematurely.  This is a consequence of the
interaction between multiple threads and the signals that GDB uses to
implement breakpoints and other events that stop execution.

   To handle this problem, your program should check the return value of
each system call and react appropriately.  This is good programming
style anyways.

   For example, do not write code like this:

       sleep (10);

   The call to 'sleep' will return early if a different thread stops at
a breakpoint or for some other reason.

   Instead, write this:

       int unslept = 10;
       while (unslept > 0)
         unslept = sleep (unslept);

   A system call is allowed to return early, so the system is still
conforming to its specification.  But GDB does cause your multi-threaded
program to behave differently than it would without GDB.

   Also, GDB uses internal breakpoints in the thread library to monitor
certain events such as thread creation and thread destruction.  When
such an event happens, a system call in another thread may return
prematurely, even though your program does not appear to stop.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Observer Mode,  Prev: Interrupted System Calls,  Up: Thread Stops

5.5.6 Observer Mode
-------------------

If you want to build on non-stop mode and observe program behavior
without any chance of disruption by GDB, you can set variables to
disable all of the debugger's attempts to modify state, whether by
writing memory, inserting breakpoints, etc.  These operate at a low
level, intercepting operations from all commands.

   When all of these are set to 'off', then GDB is said to be "observer
mode".  As a convenience, the variable 'observer' can be set to disable
these, plus enable non-stop mode.

   Note that GDB will not prevent you from making nonsensical
combinations of these settings.  For instance, if you have enabled
'may-insert-breakpoints' but disabled 'may-write-memory', then
breakpoints that work by writing trap instructions into the code stream
will still not be able to be placed.

'set observer on'
'set observer off'
     When set to 'on', this disables all the permission variables below
     (except for 'insert-fast-tracepoints'), plus enables non-stop
     debugging.  Setting this to 'off' switches back to normal
     debugging, though remaining in non-stop mode.

'show observer'
     Show whether observer mode is on or off.

'set may-write-registers on'
'set may-write-registers off'
     This controls whether GDB will attempt to alter the values of
     registers, such as with assignment expressions in 'print', or the
     'jump' command.  It defaults to 'on'.

'show may-write-registers'
     Show the current permission to write registers.

'set may-write-memory on'
'set may-write-memory off'
     This controls whether GDB will attempt to alter the contents of
     memory, such as with assignment expressions in 'print'.  It
     defaults to 'on'.

'show may-write-memory'
     Show the current permission to write memory.

'set may-insert-breakpoints on'
'set may-insert-breakpoints off'
     This controls whether GDB will attempt to insert breakpoints.  This
     affects all breakpoints, including internal breakpoints defined by
     GDB.  It defaults to 'on'.

'show may-insert-breakpoints'
     Show the current permission to insert breakpoints.

'set may-insert-tracepoints on'
'set may-insert-tracepoints off'
     This controls whether GDB will attempt to insert (regular)
     tracepoints at the beginning of a tracing experiment.  It affects
     only non-fast tracepoints, fast tracepoints being under the control
     of 'may-insert-fast-tracepoints'.  It defaults to 'on'.

'show may-insert-tracepoints'
     Show the current permission to insert tracepoints.

'set may-insert-fast-tracepoints on'
'set may-insert-fast-tracepoints off'
     This controls whether GDB will attempt to insert fast tracepoints
     at the beginning of a tracing experiment.  It affects only fast
     tracepoints, regular (non-fast) tracepoints being under the control
     of 'may-insert-tracepoints'.  It defaults to 'on'.

'show may-insert-fast-tracepoints'
     Show the current permission to insert fast tracepoints.

'set may-interrupt on'
'set may-interrupt off'
     This controls whether GDB will attempt to interrupt or stop program
     execution.  When this variable is 'off', the 'interrupt' command
     will have no effect, nor will 'Ctrl-c'.  It defaults to 'on'.

'show may-interrupt'
     Show the current permission to interrupt or stop the program.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Reverse Execution,  Next: Process Record and Replay,  Prev: Stopping,  Up: Top

