9.2 Specifying a Location
=========================

* Menu:

* Linespec Locations::                Linespec locations
* Explicit Locations::                Explicit locations
* Address Locations::                 Address locations

Several GDB commands accept arguments that specify a location of your
program's code.  Since GDB is a source-level debugger, a location
usually specifies some line in the source code.  Locations may be
specified using three different formats: linespec locations, explicit
locations, or address locations.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Linespec Locations,  Next: Explicit Locations,  Up: Specify Location

9.2.1 Linespec Locations
------------------------

A "linespec" is a colon-separated list of source location parameters
such as file name, function name, etc.  Here are all the different ways
of specifying a linespec:

'LINENUM'
     Specifies the line number LINENUM of the current source file.

'-OFFSET'
'+OFFSET'
     Specifies the line OFFSET lines before or after the "current line".
     For the 'list' command, the current line is the last one printed;
     for the breakpoint commands, this is the line at which execution
     stopped in the currently selected "stack frame" (*note Frames:
     Frames, for a description of stack frames.)  When used as the
     second of the two linespecs in a 'list' command, this specifies the
     line OFFSET lines up or down from the first linespec.

'FILENAME:LINENUM'
     Specifies the line LINENUM in the source file FILENAME.  If
     FILENAME is a relative file name, then it will match any source
     file name with the same trailing components.  For example, if
     FILENAME is 'gcc/expr.c', then it will match source file name of
     '/build/trunk/gcc/expr.c', but not '/build/trunk/libcpp/expr.c' or
     '/build/trunk/gcc/x-expr.c'.

'FUNCTION'
     Specifies the line that begins the body of the function FUNCTION.
     For example, in C, this is the line with the open brace.

     By default, in C++ and Ada, FUNCTION is interpreted as specifying
     all functions named FUNCTION in all scopes.  For C++, this means in
     all namespaces and classes.  For Ada, this means in all packages.

     For example, assuming a program with C++ symbols named 'A::B::func'
     and 'B::func', both commands 'break func' and 'break B::func' set a
     breakpoint on both symbols.

     Commands that accept a linespec let you override this with the
     '-qualified' option.  For example, 'break -qualified func' sets a
     breakpoint on a free-function named 'func' ignoring any C++ class
     methods and namespace functions called 'func'.

     *Note Explicit Locations::.

'FUNCTION:LABEL'
     Specifies the line where LABEL appears in FUNCTION.

'FILENAME:FUNCTION'
     Specifies the line that begins the body of the function FUNCTION in
     the file FILENAME.  You only need the file name with a function
     name to avoid ambiguity when there are identically named functions
     in different source files.

'LABEL'
     Specifies the line at which the label named LABEL appears in the
     function corresponding to the currently selected stack frame.  If
     there is no current selected stack frame (for instance, if the
     inferior is not running), then GDB will not search for a label.

'-pstap|-probe-stap [OBJFILE:[PROVIDER:]]NAME'
     The GNU/Linux tool 'SystemTap' provides a way for applications to
     embed static probes.  *Note Static Probe Points::, for more
     information on finding and using static probes.  This form of
     linespec specifies the location of such a static probe.

     If OBJFILE is given, only probes coming from that shared library or
     executable matching OBJFILE as a regular expression are considered.
     If PROVIDER is given, then only probes from that provider are
     considered.  If several probes match the spec, GDB will insert a
     breakpoint at each one of those probes.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Explicit Locations,  Next: Address Locations,  Prev: Linespec Locations,  Up: Specify Location

9.2.2 Explicit Locations
------------------------

"Explicit locations" allow the user to directly specify the source
location's parameters using option-value pairs.

   Explicit locations are useful when several functions, labels, or file
names have the same name (base name for files) in the program's sources.
In these cases, explicit locations point to the source line you meant
more accurately and unambiguously.  Also, using explicit locations might
be faster in large programs.

   For example, the linespec 'foo:bar' may refer to a function 'bar'
defined in the file named 'foo' or the label 'bar' in a function named
'foo'.  GDB must search either the file system or the symbol table to
know.

   The list of valid explicit location options is summarized in the
following table:

'-source FILENAME'
     The value specifies the source file name.  To differentiate between
     files with the same base name, prepend as many directories as is
     necessary to uniquely identify the desired file, e.g.,
     'foo/bar/baz.c'.  Otherwise GDB will use the first file it finds
     with the given base name.  This option requires the use of either
     '-function' or '-line'.

'-function FUNCTION'
     The value specifies the name of a function.  Operations on function
     locations unmodified by other options (such as '-label' or '-line')
     refer to the line that begins the body of the function.  In C, for
     example, this is the line with the open brace.

     By default, in C++ and Ada, FUNCTION is interpreted as specifying
     all functions named FUNCTION in all scopes.  For C++, this means in
     all namespaces and classes.  For Ada, this means in all packages.

     For example, assuming a program with C++ symbols named 'A::B::func'
     and 'B::func', both commands 'break -function func' and
     'break -function B::func' set a breakpoint on both symbols.

     You can use the '-qualified' flag to override this (see below).

'-qualified'

     This flag makes GDB interpret a function name specified with
     '-function' as a complete fully-qualified name.

     For example, assuming a C++ program with symbols named 'A::B::func'
     and 'B::func', the 'break -qualified -function B::func' command
     sets a breakpoint on 'B::func', only.

     (Note: the '-qualified' option can precede a linespec as well
     (*note Linespec Locations::), so the particular example above could
     be simplified as 'break -qualified B::func'.)

'-label LABEL'
     The value specifies the name of a label.  When the function name is
     not specified, the label is searched in the function of the
     currently selected stack frame.

'-line NUMBER'
     The value specifies a line offset for the location.  The offset may
     either be absolute ('-line 3') or relative ('-line +3'), depending
     on the command.  When specified without any other options, the line
     offset is relative to the current line.

   Explicit location options may be abbreviated by omitting any
non-unique trailing characters from the option name, e.g.,
'break -s main.c -li 3'.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Address Locations,  Prev: Explicit Locations,  Up: Specify Location

9.2.3 Address Locations
-----------------------

"Address locations" indicate a specific program address.  They have the
generalized form *ADDRESS.

   For line-oriented commands, such as 'list' and 'edit', this specifies
a source line that contains ADDRESS.  For 'break' and other
breakpoint-oriented commands, this can be used to set breakpoints in
parts of your program which do not have debugging information or source
files.

   Here ADDRESS may be any expression valid in the current working
language (*note working language: Languages.) that specifies a code
address.  In addition, as a convenience, GDB extends the semantics of
expressions used in locations to cover several situations that
frequently occur during debugging.  Here are the various forms of
ADDRESS:

'EXPRESSION'
     Any expression valid in the current working language.

'FUNCADDR'
     An address of a function or procedure derived from its name.  In C,
     C++, Objective-C, Fortran, minimal, and assembly, this is simply
     the function's name FUNCTION (and actually a special case of a
     valid expression).  In Pascal and Modula-2, this is '&FUNCTION'.
     In Ada, this is 'FUNCTION'Address' (although the Pascal form also
     works).

     This form specifies the address of the function's first
     instruction, before the stack frame and arguments have been set up.

''FILENAME':FUNCADDR'
     Like FUNCADDR above, but also specifies the name of the source file
     explicitly.  This is useful if the name of the function does not
     specify the function unambiguously, e.g., if there are several
     functions with identical names in different source files.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Edit,  Next: Search,  Prev: Specify Location,  Up: Source

