13.1 Commands to Set Tracepoints
================================

Before running such a "trace experiment", an arbitrary number of
tracepoints can be set.  A tracepoint is actually a special type of
breakpoint (*note Set Breaks::), so you can manipulate it using standard
breakpoint commands.  For instance, as with breakpoints, tracepoint
numbers are successive integers starting from one, and many of the
commands associated with tracepoints take the tracepoint number as their
argument, to identify which tracepoint to work on.

   For each tracepoint, you can specify, in advance, some arbitrary set
of data that you want the target to collect in the trace buffer when it
hits that tracepoint.  The collected data can include registers, local
variables, or global data.  Later, you can use GDB commands to examine
the values these data had at the time the tracepoint was hit.

   Tracepoints do not support every breakpoint feature.  Ignore counts
on tracepoints have no effect, and tracepoints cannot run GDB commands
when they are hit.  Tracepoints may not be thread-specific either.

   Some targets may support "fast tracepoints", which are inserted in a
different way (such as with a jump instead of a trap), that is faster
but possibly restricted in where they may be installed.

   Regular and fast tracepoints are dynamic tracing facilities, meaning
that they can be used to insert tracepoints at (almost) any location in
the target.  Some targets may also support controlling "static
tracepoints" from GDB.  With static tracing, a set of instrumentation
points, also known as "markers", are embedded in the target program, and
can be activated or deactivated by name or address.  These are usually
placed at locations which facilitate investigating what the target is
actually doing.  GDB's support for static tracing includes being able to
list instrumentation points, and attach them with GDB defined high level
tracepoints that expose the whole range of convenience of GDB's
tracepoints support.  Namely, support for collecting registers values
and values of global or local (to the instrumentation point) variables;
tracepoint conditions and trace state variables.  The act of installing
a GDB static tracepoint on an instrumentation point, or marker, is
referred to as "probing" a static tracepoint marker.

   'gdbserver' supports tracepoints on some target systems.  *Note
Tracepoints support in 'gdbserver': Server.

   This section describes commands to set tracepoints and associated
conditions and actions.

* Menu:

* Create and Delete Tracepoints::
* Enable and Disable Tracepoints::
* Tracepoint Passcounts::
* Tracepoint Conditions::
* Trace State Variables::
* Tracepoint Actions::
* Listing Tracepoints::
* Listing Static Tracepoint Markers::
* Starting and Stopping Trace Experiments::
* Tracepoint Restrictions::

File: gdb.info,  Node: Create and Delete Tracepoints,  Next: Enable and Disable Tracepoints,  Up: Set Tracepoints

13.1.1 Create and Delete Tracepoints
------------------------------------

'trace LOCATION'
     The 'trace' command is very similar to the 'break' command.  Its
     argument LOCATION can be any valid location.  *Note Specify
     Location::.  The 'trace' command defines a tracepoint, which is a
     point in the target program where the debugger will briefly stop,
     collect some data, and then allow the program to continue.  Setting
     a tracepoint or changing its actions takes effect immediately if
     the remote stub supports the 'InstallInTrace' feature (*note
     install tracepoint in tracing::).  If remote stub doesn't support
     the 'InstallInTrace' feature, all these changes don't take effect
     until the next 'tstart' command, and once a trace experiment is
     running, further changes will not have any effect until the next
     trace experiment starts.  In addition, GDB supports "pending
     tracepoints"--tracepoints whose address is not yet resolved.  (This
     is similar to pending breakpoints.)  Pending tracepoints are not
     downloaded to the target and not installed until they are resolved.
     The resolution of pending tracepoints requires GDB support--when
     debugging with the remote target, and GDB disconnects from the
     remote stub (*note disconnected tracing::), pending tracepoints can
     not be resolved (and downloaded to the remote stub) while GDB is
     disconnected.

     Here are some examples of using the 'trace' command:

          (gdb) trace foo.c:121    // a source file and line number

          (gdb) trace +2           // 2 lines forward

          (gdb) trace my_function  // first source line of function

          (gdb) trace *my_function // EXACT start address of function

          (gdb) trace *0x2117c4    // an address

     You can abbreviate 'trace' as 'tr'.

'trace LOCATION if COND'
     Set a tracepoint with condition COND; evaluate the expression COND
     each time the tracepoint is reached, and collect data only if the
     value is nonzero--that is, if COND evaluates as true.  *Note
     Tracepoint Conditions: Tracepoint Conditions, for more information
     on tracepoint conditions.

'ftrace LOCATION [ if COND ]'
     The 'ftrace' command sets a fast tracepoint.  For targets that
     support them, fast tracepoints will use a more efficient but
     possibly less general technique to trigger data collection, such as
     a jump instruction instead of a trap, or some sort of hardware
     support.  It may not be possible to create a fast tracepoint at the
     desired location, in which case the command will exit with an
     explanatory message.

     GDB handles arguments to 'ftrace' exactly as for 'trace'.

     On 32-bit x86-architecture systems, fast tracepoints normally need
     to be placed at an instruction that is 5 bytes or longer, but can
     be placed at 4-byte instructions if the low 64K of memory of the
     target program is available to install trampolines.  Some Unix-type
     systems, such as GNU/Linux, exclude low addresses from the
     program's address space; but for instance with the Linux kernel it
     is possible to let GDB use this area by doing a 'sysctl' command to
     set the 'mmap_min_addr' kernel parameter, as in

          sudo sysctl -w vm.mmap_min_addr=32768

     which sets the low address to 32K, which leaves plenty of room for
     trampolines.  The minimum address should be set to a page boundary.

'strace LOCATION [ if COND ]'
     The 'strace' command sets a static tracepoint.  For targets that
     support it, setting a static tracepoint probes a static
     instrumentation point, or marker, found at LOCATION.  It may not be
     possible to set a static tracepoint at the desired location, in
     which case the command will exit with an explanatory message.

     GDB handles arguments to 'strace' exactly as for 'trace', with the
     addition that the user can also specify '-m MARKER' as LOCATION.
     This probes the marker identified by the MARKER string identifier.
     This identifier depends on the static tracepoint backend library
     your program is using.  You can find all the marker identifiers in
     the 'ID' field of the 'info static-tracepoint-markers' command
     output.  *Note Listing Static Tracepoint Markers: Listing Static
     Tracepoint Markers.  For example, in the following small program
     using the UST tracing engine:

          main ()
          {
            trace_mark(ust, bar33, "str %s", "FOOBAZ");
          }

     the marker id is composed of joining the first two arguments to the
     'trace_mark' call with a slash, which translates to:

          (gdb) info static-tracepoint-markers
          Cnt Enb ID         Address            What
          1   n   ust/bar33  0x0000000000400ddc in main at stexample.c:22
                   Data: "str %s"
          [etc...]

     so you may probe the marker above with:

          (gdb) strace -m ust/bar33

     Static tracepoints accept an extra collect action -- 'collect
     $_sdata'.  This collects arbitrary user data passed in the probe
     point call to the tracing library.  In the UST example above,
     you'll see that the third argument to 'trace_mark' is a printf-like
     format string.  The user data is then the result of running that
     formatting string against the following arguments.  Note that 'info
     static-tracepoint-markers' command output lists that format string
     in the 'Data:' field.

     You can inspect this data when analyzing the trace buffer, by
     printing the $_sdata variable like any other variable available to
     GDB.  *Note Tracepoint Action Lists: Tracepoint Actions.

     The convenience variable '$tpnum' records the tracepoint number of
     the most recently set tracepoint.

'delete tracepoint [NUM]'
     Permanently delete one or more tracepoints.  With no argument, the
     default is to delete all tracepoints.  Note that the regular
     'delete' command can remove tracepoints also.

     Examples:

          (gdb) delete trace 1 2 3 // remove three tracepoints

          (gdb) delete trace       // remove all tracepoints

     You can abbreviate this command as 'del tr'.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Enable and Disable Tracepoints,  Next: Tracepoint Passcounts,  Prev: Create and Delete Tracepoints,  Up: Set Tracepoints

13.1.2 Enable and Disable Tracepoints
-------------------------------------

These commands are deprecated; they are equivalent to plain 'disable'
and 'enable'.

'disable tracepoint [NUM]'
     Disable tracepoint NUM, or all tracepoints if no argument NUM is
     given.  A disabled tracepoint will have no effect during a trace
     experiment, but it is not forgotten.  You can re-enable a disabled
     tracepoint using the 'enable tracepoint' command.  If the command
     is issued during a trace experiment and the debug target has
     support for disabling tracepoints during a trace experiment, then
     the change will be effective immediately.  Otherwise, it will be
     applied to the next trace experiment.

'enable tracepoint [NUM]'
     Enable tracepoint NUM, or all tracepoints.  If this command is
     issued during a trace experiment and the debug target supports
     enabling tracepoints during a trace experiment, then the enabled
     tracepoints will become effective immediately.  Otherwise, they
     will become effective the next time a trace experiment is run.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Tracepoint Passcounts,  Next: Tracepoint Conditions,  Prev: Enable and Disable Tracepoints,  Up: Set Tracepoints

13.1.3 Tracepoint Passcounts
----------------------------

'passcount [N [NUM]]'
     Set the "passcount" of a tracepoint.  The passcount is a way to
     automatically stop a trace experiment.  If a tracepoint's passcount
     is N, then the trace experiment will be automatically stopped on
     the N'th time that tracepoint is hit.  If the tracepoint number NUM
     is not specified, the 'passcount' command sets the passcount of the
     most recently defined tracepoint.  If no passcount is given, the
     trace experiment will run until stopped explicitly by the user.

     Examples:

          (gdb) passcount 5 2 // Stop on the 5th execution of
                                        // tracepoint 2

          (gdb) passcount 12  // Stop on the 12th execution of the
                                        // most recently defined tracepoint.
          (gdb) trace foo
          (gdb) pass 3
          (gdb) trace bar
          (gdb) pass 2
          (gdb) trace baz
          (gdb) pass 1        // Stop tracing when foo has been
                                         // executed 3 times OR when bar has
                                         // been executed 2 times
                                         // OR when baz has been executed 1 time.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Tracepoint Conditions,  Next: Trace State Variables,  Prev: Tracepoint Passcounts,  Up: Set Tracepoints

13.1.4 Tracepoint Conditions
----------------------------

The simplest sort of tracepoint collects data every time your program
reaches a specified place.  You can also specify a "condition" for a
tracepoint.  A condition is just a Boolean expression in your
programming language (*note Expressions: Expressions.).  A tracepoint
with a condition evaluates the expression each time your program reaches
it, and data collection happens only if the condition is true.

   Tracepoint conditions can be specified when a tracepoint is set, by
using 'if' in the arguments to the 'trace' command.  *Note Setting
Tracepoints: Create and Delete Tracepoints.  They can also be set or
changed at any time with the 'condition' command, just as with
breakpoints.

   Unlike breakpoint conditions, GDB does not actually evaluate the
conditional expression itself.  Instead, GDB encodes the expression into
an agent expression (*note Agent Expressions::) suitable for execution
on the target, independently of GDB.  Global variables become raw memory
locations, locals become stack accesses, and so forth.

   For instance, suppose you have a function that is usually called
frequently, but should not be called after an error has occurred.  You
could use the following tracepoint command to collect data about calls
of that function that happen while the error code is propagating through
the program; an unconditional tracepoint could end up collecting
thousands of useless trace frames that you would have to search through.

     (gdb) trace normal_operation if errcode > 0

File: gdb.info,  Node: Trace State Variables,  Next: Tracepoint Actions,  Prev: Tracepoint Conditions,  Up: Set Tracepoints

13.1.5 Trace State Variables
----------------------------

A "trace state variable" is a special type of variable that is created
and managed by target-side code.  The syntax is the same as that for
GDB's convenience variables (a string prefixed with "$"), but they are
stored on the target.  They must be created explicitly, using a
'tvariable' command.  They are always 64-bit signed integers.

   Trace state variables are remembered by GDB, and downloaded to the
target along with tracepoint information when the trace experiment
starts.  There are no intrinsic limits on the number of trace state
variables, beyond memory limitations of the target.

   Although trace state variables are managed by the target, you can use
them in print commands and expressions as if they were convenience
variables; GDB will get the current value from the target while the
trace experiment is running.  Trace state variables share the same
namespace as other "$" variables, which means that you cannot have trace
state variables with names like '$23' or '$pc', nor can you have a trace
state variable and a convenience variable with the same name.

'tvariable $NAME [ = EXPRESSION ]'
     The 'tvariable' command creates a new trace state variable named
     '$NAME', and optionally gives it an initial value of EXPRESSION.
     The EXPRESSION is evaluated when this command is entered; the
     result will be converted to an integer if possible, otherwise GDB
     will report an error.  A subsequent 'tvariable' command specifying
     the same name does not create a variable, but instead assigns the
     supplied initial value to the existing variable of that name,
     overwriting any previous initial value.  The default initial value
     is 0.

'info tvariables'
     List all the trace state variables along with their initial values.
     Their current values may also be displayed, if the trace experiment
     is currently running.

'delete tvariable [ $NAME ... ]'
     Delete the given trace state variables, or all of them if no
     arguments are specified.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Tracepoint Actions,  Next: Listing Tracepoints,  Prev: Trace State Variables,  Up: Set Tracepoints

13.1.6 Tracepoint Action Lists
------------------------------

'actions [NUM]'
     This command will prompt for a list of actions to be taken when the
     tracepoint is hit.  If the tracepoint number NUM is not specified,
     this command sets the actions for the one that was most recently
     defined (so that you can define a tracepoint and then say 'actions'
     without bothering about its number).  You specify the actions
     themselves on the following lines, one action at a time, and
     terminate the actions list with a line containing just 'end'.  So
     far, the only defined actions are 'collect', 'teval', and
     'while-stepping'.

     'actions' is actually equivalent to 'commands' (*note Breakpoint
     Command Lists: Break Commands.), except that only the defined
     actions are allowed; any other GDB command is rejected.

     To remove all actions from a tracepoint, type 'actions NUM' and
     follow it immediately with 'end'.

          (gdb) collect DATA // collect some data

          (gdb) while-stepping 5 // single-step 5 times, collect data

          (gdb) end              // signals the end of actions.

     In the following example, the action list begins with 'collect'
     commands indicating the things to be collected when the tracepoint
     is hit.  Then, in order to single-step and collect additional data
     following the tracepoint, a 'while-stepping' command is used,
     followed by the list of things to be collected after each step in a
     sequence of single steps.  The 'while-stepping' command is
     terminated by its own separate 'end' command.  Lastly, the action
     list is terminated by an 'end' command.

          (gdb) trace foo
          (gdb) actions
          Enter actions for tracepoint 1, one per line:
          > collect bar,baz
          > collect $regs
          > while-stepping 12
            > collect $pc, arr[i]
            > end
          end

'collect[/MODS] EXPR1, EXPR2, ...'
     Collect values of the given expressions when the tracepoint is hit.
     This command accepts a comma-separated list of any valid
     expressions.  In addition to global, static, or local variables,
     the following special arguments are supported:

     '$regs'
          Collect all registers.

     '$args'
          Collect all function arguments.

     '$locals'
          Collect all local variables.

     '$_ret'
          Collect the return address.  This is helpful if you want to
          see more of a backtrace.

          _Note:_ The return address location can not always be reliably
          determined up front, and the wrong address / registers may end
          up collected instead.  On some architectures the reliability
          is higher for tracepoints at function entry, while on others
          it's the opposite.  When this happens, backtracing will stop
          because the return address is found unavailable (unless
          another collect rule happened to match it).

     '$_probe_argc'
          Collects the number of arguments from the static probe at
          which the tracepoint is located.  *Note Static Probe Points::.

     '$_probe_argN'
          N is an integer between 0 and 11.  Collects the Nth argument
          from the static probe at which the tracepoint is located.
          *Note Static Probe Points::.

     '$_sdata'
          Collect static tracepoint marker specific data.  Only
          available for static tracepoints.  *Note Tracepoint Action
          Lists: Tracepoint Actions.  On the UST static tracepoints
          library backend, an instrumentation point resembles a 'printf'
          function call.  The tracing library is able to collect user
          specified data formatted to a character string using the
          format provided by the programmer that instrumented the
          program.  Other backends have similar mechanisms.  Here's an
          example of a UST marker call:

                const char master_name[] = "$your_name";
                trace_mark(channel1, marker1, "hello %s", master_name)

          In this case, collecting '$_sdata' collects the string 'hello
          $yourname'.  When analyzing the trace buffer, you can inspect
          '$_sdata' like any other variable available to GDB.

     You can give several consecutive 'collect' commands, each one with
     a single argument, or one 'collect' command with several arguments
     separated by commas; the effect is the same.

     The optional MODS changes the usual handling of the arguments.  's'
     requests that pointers to chars be handled as strings, in
     particular collecting the contents of the memory being pointed at,
     up to the first zero.  The upper bound is by default the value of
     the 'print elements' variable; if 's' is followed by a decimal
     number, that is the upper bound instead.  So for instance
     'collect/s25 mystr' collects as many as 25 characters at 'mystr'.

     The command 'info scope' (*note info scope: Symbols.) is
     particularly useful for figuring out what data to collect.

'teval EXPR1, EXPR2, ...'
     Evaluate the given expressions when the tracepoint is hit.  This
     command accepts a comma-separated list of expressions.  The results
     are discarded, so this is mainly useful for assigning values to
     trace state variables (*note Trace State Variables::) without
     adding those values to the trace buffer, as would be the case if
     the 'collect' action were used.

'while-stepping N'
     Perform N single-step instruction traces after the tracepoint,
     collecting new data after each step.  The 'while-stepping' command
     is followed by the list of what to collect while stepping (followed
     by its own 'end' command):

          > while-stepping 12
            > collect $regs, myglobal
            > end
          >

     Note that '$pc' is not automatically collected by 'while-stepping';
     you need to explicitly collect that register if you need it.  You
     may abbreviate 'while-stepping' as 'ws' or 'stepping'.

'set default-collect EXPR1, EXPR2, ...'
     This variable is a list of expressions to collect at each
     tracepoint hit.  It is effectively an additional 'collect' action
     prepended to every tracepoint action list.  The expressions are
     parsed individually for each tracepoint, so for instance a variable
     named 'xyz' may be interpreted as a global for one tracepoint, and
     a local for another, as appropriate to the tracepoint's location.

'show default-collect'
     Show the list of expressions that are collected by default at each
     tracepoint hit.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Listing Tracepoints,  Next: Listing Static Tracepoint Markers,  Prev: Tracepoint Actions,  Up: Set Tracepoints

13.1.7 Listing Tracepoints
--------------------------

'info tracepoints [NUM...]'
     Display information about the tracepoint NUM.  If you don't specify
     a tracepoint number, displays information about all the tracepoints
     defined so far.  The format is similar to that used for 'info
     breakpoints'; in fact, 'info tracepoints' is the same command,
     simply restricting itself to tracepoints.

     A tracepoint's listing may include additional information specific
     to tracing:

        * its passcount as given by the 'passcount N' command

        * the state about installed on target of each location

          (gdb) info trace
          Num     Type           Disp Enb Address    What
          1       tracepoint     keep y   0x0804ab57 in foo() at main.cxx:7
                  while-stepping 20
                    collect globfoo, $regs
                  end
                  collect globfoo2
                  end
                  pass count 1200
          2       tracepoint     keep y   <MULTIPLE>
                  collect $eip
          2.1                         y     0x0804859c in func4 at change-loc.h:35
                  installed on target
          2.2                         y     0xb7ffc480 in func4 at change-loc.h:35
                  installed on target
          2.3                         y     <PENDING>  set_tracepoint
          3       tracepoint     keep y   0x080485b1 in foo at change-loc.c:29
                  not installed on target
          (gdb)

     This command can be abbreviated 'info tp'.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Listing Static Tracepoint Markers,  Next: Starting and Stopping Trace Experiments,  Prev: Listing Tracepoints,  Up: Set Tracepoints

13.1.8 Listing Static Tracepoint Markers
----------------------------------------

'info static-tracepoint-markers'
     Display information about all static tracepoint markers defined in
     the program.

     For each marker, the following columns are printed:

     _Count_
          An incrementing counter, output to help readability.  This is
          not a stable identifier.
     _ID_
          The marker ID, as reported by the target.
     _Enabled or Disabled_
          Probed markers are tagged with 'y'.  'n' identifies marks that
          are not enabled.
     _Address_
          Where the marker is in your program, as a memory address.
     _What_
          Where the marker is in the source for your program, as a file
          and line number.  If the debug information included in the
          program does not allow GDB to locate the source of the marker,
          this column will be left blank.

     In addition, the following information may be printed for each
     marker:

     _Data_
          User data passed to the tracing library by the marker call.
          In the UST backend, this is the format string passed as
          argument to the marker call.
     _Static tracepoints probing the marker_
          The list of static tracepoints attached to the marker.

          (gdb) info static-tracepoint-markers
          Cnt ID         Enb Address            What
          1   ust/bar2   y   0x0000000000400e1a in main at stexample.c:25
               Data: number1 %d number2 %d
               Probed by static tracepoints: #2
          2   ust/bar33  n   0x0000000000400c87 in main at stexample.c:24
               Data: str %s
          (gdb)

File: gdb.info,  Node: Starting and Stopping Trace Experiments,  Next: Tracepoint Restrictions,  Prev: Listing Static Tracepoint Markers,  Up: Set Tracepoints

13.1.9 Starting and Stopping Trace Experiments
----------------------------------------------

'tstart'
     This command starts the trace experiment, and begins collecting
     data.  It has the side effect of discarding all the data collected
     in the trace buffer during the previous trace experiment.  If any
     arguments are supplied, they are taken as a note and stored with
     the trace experiment's state.  The notes may be arbitrary text, and
     are especially useful with disconnected tracing in a multi-user
     context; the notes can explain what the trace is doing, supply user
     contact information, and so forth.

'tstop'
     This command stops the trace experiment.  If any arguments are
     supplied, they are recorded with the experiment as a note.  This is
     useful if you are stopping a trace started by someone else, for
     instance if the trace is interfering with the system's behavior and
     needs to be stopped quickly.

     *Note*: a trace experiment and data collection may stop
     automatically if any tracepoint's passcount is reached (*note
     Tracepoint Passcounts::), or if the trace buffer becomes full.

'tstatus'
     This command displays the status of the current trace data
     collection.

   Here is an example of the commands we described so far:

     (gdb) trace gdb_c_test
     (gdb) actions
     Enter actions for tracepoint #1, one per line.
     > collect $regs,$locals,$args
     > while-stepping 11
       > collect $regs
       > end
     > end
     (gdb) tstart
     	[time passes ...]
     (gdb) tstop

   You can choose to continue running the trace experiment even if GDB
disconnects from the target, voluntarily or involuntarily.  For commands
such as 'detach', the debugger will ask what you want to do with the
trace.  But for unexpected terminations (GDB crash, network outage), it
would be unfortunate to lose hard-won trace data, so the variable
'disconnected-tracing' lets you decide whether the trace should continue
running without GDB.

'set disconnected-tracing on'
'set disconnected-tracing off'
     Choose whether a tracing run should continue to run if GDB has
     disconnected from the target.  Note that 'detach' or 'quit' will
     ask you directly what to do about a running trace no matter what
     this variable's setting, so the variable is mainly useful for
     handling unexpected situations, such as loss of the network.

'show disconnected-tracing'
     Show the current choice for disconnected tracing.

   When you reconnect to the target, the trace experiment may or may not
still be running; it might have filled the trace buffer in the meantime,
or stopped for one of the other reasons.  If it is running, it will
continue after reconnection.

   Upon reconnection, the target will upload information about the
tracepoints in effect.  GDB will then compare that information to the
set of tracepoints currently defined, and attempt to match them up,
allowing for the possibility that the numbers may have changed due to
creation and deletion in the meantime.  If one of the target's
tracepoints does not match any in GDB, the debugger will create a new
tracepoint, so that you have a number with which to specify that
tracepoint.  This matching-up process is necessarily heuristic, and it
may result in useless tracepoints being created; you may simply delete
them if they are of no use.

   If your target agent supports a "circular trace buffer", then you can
run a trace experiment indefinitely without filling the trace buffer;
when space runs out, the agent deletes already-collected trace frames,
oldest first, until there is enough room to continue collecting.  This
is especially useful if your tracepoints are being hit too often, and
your trace gets terminated prematurely because the buffer is full.  To
ask for a circular trace buffer, simply set 'circular-trace-buffer' to
on.  You can set this at any time, including during tracing; if the
agent can do it, it will change buffer handling on the fly, otherwise it
will not take effect until the next run.

'set circular-trace-buffer on'
'set circular-trace-buffer off'
     Choose whether a tracing run should use a linear or circular buffer
     for trace data.  A linear buffer will not lose any trace data, but
     may fill up prematurely, while a circular buffer will discard old
     trace data, but it will have always room for the latest tracepoint
     hits.

'show circular-trace-buffer'
     Show the current choice for the trace buffer.  Note that this may
     not match the agent's current buffer handling, nor is it guaranteed
     to match the setting that might have been in effect during a past
     run, for instance if you are looking at frames from a trace file.

'set trace-buffer-size N'
'set trace-buffer-size unlimited'
     Request that the target use a trace buffer of N bytes.  Not all
     targets will honor the request; they may have a compiled-in size
     for the trace buffer, or some other limitation.  Set to a value of
     'unlimited' or '-1' to let the target use whatever size it likes.
     This is also the default.

'show trace-buffer-size'
     Show the current requested size for the trace buffer.  Note that
     this will only match the actual size if the target supports
     size-setting, and was able to handle the requested size.  For
     instance, if the target can only change buffer size between runs,
     this variable will not reflect the change until the next run
     starts.  Use 'tstatus' to get a report of the actual buffer size.

'set trace-user TEXT'

'show trace-user'

'set trace-notes TEXT'
     Set the trace run's notes.

'show trace-notes'
     Show the trace run's notes.

'set trace-stop-notes TEXT'
     Set the trace run's stop notes.  The handling of the note is as for
     'tstop' arguments; the set command is convenient way to fix a stop
     note that is mistaken or incomplete.

'show trace-stop-notes'
     Show the trace run's stop notes.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Tracepoint Restrictions,  Prev: Starting and Stopping Trace Experiments,  Up: Set Tracepoints

13.1.10 Tracepoint Restrictions
-------------------------------

There are a number of restrictions on the use of tracepoints.  As
described above, tracepoint data gathering occurs on the target without
interaction from GDB.  Thus the full capabilities of the debugger are
not available during data gathering, and then at data examination time,
you will be limited by only having what was collected.  The following
items describe some common problems, but it is not exhaustive, and you
may run into additional difficulties not mentioned here.

   * Tracepoint expressions are intended to gather objects (lvalues).
     Thus the full flexibility of GDB's expression evaluator is not
     available.  You cannot call functions, cast objects to aggregate
     types, access convenience variables or modify values (except by
     assignment to trace state variables).  Some language features may
     implicitly call functions (for instance Objective-C fields with
     accessors), and therefore cannot be collected either.

   * Collection of local variables, either individually or in bulk with
     '$locals' or '$args', during 'while-stepping' may behave
     erratically.  The stepping action may enter a new scope (for
     instance by stepping into a function), or the location of the
     variable may change (for instance it is loaded into a register).
     The tracepoint data recorded uses the location information for the
     variables that is correct for the tracepoint location.  When the
     tracepoint is created, it is not possible, in general, to determine
     where the steps of a 'while-stepping' sequence will advance the
     program--particularly if a conditional branch is stepped.

   * Collection of an incompletely-initialized or partially-destroyed
     object may result in something that GDB cannot display, or displays
     in a misleading way.

   * When GDB displays a pointer to character it automatically
     dereferences the pointer to also display characters of the string
     being pointed to.  However, collecting the pointer during tracing
     does not automatically collect the string.  You need to explicitly
     dereference the pointer and provide size information if you want to
     collect not only the pointer, but the memory pointed to.  For
     example, '*ptr@50' can be used to collect the 50 element array
     pointed to by 'ptr'.

   * It is not possible to collect a complete stack backtrace at a
     tracepoint.  Instead, you may collect the registers and a few
     hundred bytes from the stack pointer with something like
     '*(unsigned char *)$esp@300' (adjust to use the name of the actual
     stack pointer register on your target architecture, and the amount
     of stack you wish to capture).  Then the 'backtrace' command will
     show a partial backtrace when using a trace frame.  The number of
     stack frames that can be examined depends on the sizes of the
     frames in the collected stack.  Note that if you ask for a block so
     large that it goes past the bottom of the stack, the target agent
     may report an error trying to read from an invalid address.

   * If you do not collect registers at a tracepoint, GDB can infer that
     the value of '$pc' must be the same as the address of the
     tracepoint and use that when you are looking at a trace frame for
     that tracepoint.  However, this cannot work if the tracepoint has
     multiple locations (for instance if it was set in a function that
     was inlined), or if it has a 'while-stepping' loop.  In those cases
     GDB will warn you that it can't infer '$pc', and default it to
     zero.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Analyze Collected Data,  Next: Tracepoint Variables,  Prev: Set Tracepoints,  Up: Tracepoints

