15.3 Type and Range Checking
============================

Some languages are designed to guard you against making seemingly common
errors through a series of compile- and run-time checks.  These include
checking the type of arguments to functions and operators and making
sure mathematical overflows are caught at run time.  Checks such as
these help to ensure a program's correctness once it has been compiled
by eliminating type mismatches and providing active checks for range
errors when your program is running.

   By default GDB checks for these errors according to the rules of the
current source language.  Although GDB does not check the statements in
your program, it can check expressions entered directly into GDB for
evaluation via the 'print' command, for example.

* Menu:

* Type Checking::               An overview of type checking
* Range Checking::              An overview of range checking

File: gdb.info,  Node: Type Checking,  Next: Range Checking,  Up: Checks

15.3.1 An Overview of Type Checking
-----------------------------------

Some languages, such as C and C++, are strongly typed, meaning that the
arguments to operators and functions have to be of the correct type,
otherwise an error occurs.  These checks prevent type mismatch errors
from ever causing any run-time problems.  For example,

     int klass::my_method(char *b) { return  b ? 1 : 2; }

     (gdb) print obj.my_method (0)
     $1 = 2
but
     (gdb) print obj.my_method (0x1234)
     Cannot resolve method klass::my_method to any overloaded instance

   The second example fails because in C++ the integer constant '0x1234'
is not type-compatible with the pointer parameter type.

   For the expressions you use in GDB commands, you can tell GDB to not
enforce strict type checking or to treat any mismatches as errors and
abandon the expression; When type checking is disabled, GDB successfully
evaluates expressions like the second example above.

   Even if type checking is off, there may be other reasons related to
type that prevent GDB from evaluating an expression.  For instance, GDB
does not know how to add an 'int' and a 'struct foo'.  These particular
type errors have nothing to do with the language in use and usually
arise from expressions which make little sense to evaluate anyway.

   GDB provides some additional commands for controlling type checking:

'set check type on'
'set check type off'
     Set strict type checking on or off.  If any type mismatches occur
     in evaluating an expression while type checking is on, GDB prints a
     message and aborts evaluation of the expression.

'show check type'
     Show the current setting of type checking and whether GDB is
     enforcing strict type checking rules.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Range Checking,  Prev: Type Checking,  Up: Checks

15.3.2 An Overview of Range Checking
------------------------------------

In some languages (such as Modula-2), it is an error to exceed the
bounds of a type; this is enforced with run-time checks.  Such range
checking is meant to ensure program correctness by making sure
computations do not overflow, or indices on an array element access do
not exceed the bounds of the array.

   For expressions you use in GDB commands, you can tell GDB to treat
range errors in one of three ways: ignore them, always treat them as
errors and abandon the expression, or issue warnings but evaluate the
expression anyway.

   A range error can result from numerical overflow, from exceeding an
array index bound, or when you type a constant that is not a member of
any type.  Some languages, however, do not treat overflows as an error.
In many implementations of C, mathematical overflow causes the result to
"wrap around" to lower values--for example, if M is the largest integer
value, and S is the smallest, then

     M + 1 => S

   This, too, is specific to individual languages, and in some cases
specific to individual compilers or machines.  *Note Supported
Languages: Supported Languages, for further details on specific
languages.

   GDB provides some additional commands for controlling the range
checker:

'set check range auto'
     Set range checking on or off based on the current working language.
     *Note Supported Languages: Supported Languages, for the default
     settings for each language.

'set check range on'
'set check range off'
     Set range checking on or off, overriding the default setting for
     the current working language.  A warning is issued if the setting
     does not match the language default.  If a range error occurs and
     range checking is on, then a message is printed and evaluation of
     the expression is aborted.

'set check range warn'
     Output messages when the GDB range checker detects a range error,
     but attempt to evaluate the expression anyway.  Evaluating the
     expression may still be impossible for other reasons, such as
     accessing memory that the process does not own (a typical example
     from many Unix systems).

'show range'
     Show the current setting of the range checker, and whether or not
     it is being set automatically by GDB.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Supported Languages,  Next: Unsupported Languages,  Prev: Checks,  Up: Languages

