20.1 Connecting to a Remote Target
==================================

This section describes how to connect to a remote target, including the
types of connections and their differences, how to set up executable and
symbol files on the host and target, and the commands used for
connecting to and disconnecting from the remote target.

20.1.1 Types of Remote Connections
----------------------------------

GDB supports two types of remote connections, 'target remote' mode and
'target extended-remote' mode.  Note that many remote targets support
only 'target remote' mode.  There are several major differences between
the two types of connections, enumerated here:

Result of detach or program exit
     *With target remote mode:* When the debugged program exits or you
     detach from it, GDB disconnects from the target.  When using
     'gdbserver', 'gdbserver' will exit.

     *With target extended-remote mode:* When the debugged program exits
     or you detach from it, GDB remains connected to the target, even
     though no program is running.  You can rerun the program, attach to
     a running program, or use 'monitor' commands specific to the
     target.

     When using 'gdbserver' in this case, it does not exit unless it was
     invoked using the '--once' option.  If the '--once' option was not
     used, you can ask 'gdbserver' to exit using the 'monitor exit'
     command (*note Monitor Commands for gdbserver::).

Specifying the program to debug
     For both connection types you use the 'file' command to specify the
     program on the host system.  If you are using 'gdbserver' there are
     some differences in how to specify the location of the program on
     the target.

     *With target remote mode:* You must either specify the program to
     debug on the 'gdbserver' command line or use the '--attach' option
     (*note Attaching to a Running Program: Attaching to a program.).

     *With target extended-remote mode:* You may specify the program to
     debug on the 'gdbserver' command line, or you can load the program
     or attach to it using GDB commands after connecting to 'gdbserver'.

     You can start 'gdbserver' without supplying an initial command to
     run or process ID to attach.  To do this, use the '--multi' command
     line option.  Then you can connect using 'target extended-remote'
     and start the program you want to debug (see below for details on
     using the 'run' command in this scenario).  Note that the
     conditions under which 'gdbserver' terminates depend on how GDB
     connects to it ('target remote' or 'target extended-remote').  The
     '--multi' option to 'gdbserver' has no influence on that.

The 'run' command
     *With target remote mode:* The 'run' command is not supported.
     Once a connection has been established, you can use all the usual
     GDB commands to examine and change data.  The remote program is
     already running, so you can use commands like 'step' and
     'continue'.

     *With target extended-remote mode:* The 'run' command is supported.
     The 'run' command uses the value set by 'set remote exec-file'
     (*note set remote exec-file::) to select the program to run.
     Command line arguments are supported, except for wildcard expansion
     and I/O redirection (*note Arguments::).

     If you specify the program to debug on the command line, then the
     'run' command is not required to start execution, and you can
     resume using commands like 'step' and 'continue' as with 'target
     remote' mode.

Attaching
     *With target remote mode:* The GDB command 'attach' is not
     supported.  To attach to a running program using 'gdbserver', you
     must use the '--attach' option (*note Running gdbserver::).

     *With target extended-remote mode:* To attach to a running program,
     you may use the 'attach' command after the connection has been
     established.  If you are using 'gdbserver', you may also invoke
     'gdbserver' using the '--attach' option (*note Running
     gdbserver::).

     Some remote targets allow GDB to determine the executable file
     running in the process the debugger is attaching to.  In such a
     case, GDB uses the value of 'exec-file-mismatch' to handle a
     possible mismatch between the executable file name running in the
     process and the name of the current exec-file loaded by GDB (*note
     set exec-file-mismatch::).

20.1.2 Host and Target Files
----------------------------

GDB, running on the host, needs access to symbol and debugging
information for your program running on the target.  This requires
access to an unstripped copy of your program, and possibly any
associated symbol files.  Note that this section applies equally to both
'target remote' mode and 'target extended-remote' mode.

   Some remote targets (*note qXfer executable filename read::, and
*note Host I/O Packets::) allow GDB to access program files over the
same connection used to communicate with GDB.  With such a target, if
the remote program is unstripped, the only command you need is 'target
remote' (or 'target extended-remote').

   If the remote program is stripped, or the target does not support
remote program file access, start up GDB using the name of the local
unstripped copy of your program as the first argument, or use the 'file'
command.  Use 'set sysroot' to specify the location (on the host) of
target libraries (unless your GDB was compiled with the correct sysroot
using '--with-sysroot').  Alternatively, you may use 'set
solib-search-path' to specify how GDB locates target libraries.

   The symbol file and target libraries must exactly match the
executable and libraries on the target, with one exception: the files on
the host system should not be stripped, even if the files on the target
system are.  Mismatched or missing files will lead to confusing results
during debugging.  On GNU/Linux targets, mismatched or missing files may
also prevent 'gdbserver' from debugging multi-threaded programs.

20.1.3 Remote Connection Commands
---------------------------------

GDB can communicate with the target over a serial line, a local Unix
domain socket, or over an IP network using TCP or UDP.  In each case,
GDB uses the same protocol for debugging your program; only the medium
carrying the debugging packets varies.  The 'target remote' and 'target
extended-remote' commands establish a connection to the target.  Both
commands accept the same arguments, which indicate the medium to use:

'target remote SERIAL-DEVICE'
'target extended-remote SERIAL-DEVICE'
     Use SERIAL-DEVICE to communicate with the target.  For example, to
     use a serial line connected to the device named '/dev/ttyb':

          target remote /dev/ttyb

     If you're using a serial line, you may want to give GDB the
     '--baud' option, or use the 'set serial baud' command (*note set
     serial baud: Remote Configuration.) before the 'target' command.

'target remote LOCAL-SOCKET'
'target extended-remote LOCAL-SOCKET'
     Use LOCAL-SOCKET to communicate with the target.  For example, to
     use a local Unix domain socket bound to the file system entry
     '/tmp/gdb-socket0':

          target remote /tmp/gdb-socket0

     Note that this command has the same form as the command to connect
     to a serial line.  GDB will automatically determine which kind of
     file you have specified and will make the appropriate kind of
     connection.  This feature is not available if the host system does
     not support Unix domain sockets.

'target remote HOST:PORT'
'target remote [HOST]:PORT'
'target remote tcp:HOST:PORT'
'target remote tcp:[HOST]:PORT'
'target remote tcp4:HOST:PORT'
'target remote tcp6:HOST:PORT'
'target remote tcp6:[HOST]:PORT'
'target extended-remote HOST:PORT'
'target extended-remote [HOST]:PORT'
'target extended-remote tcp:HOST:PORT'
'target extended-remote tcp:[HOST]:PORT'
'target extended-remote tcp4:HOST:PORT'
'target extended-remote tcp6:HOST:PORT'
'target extended-remote tcp6:[HOST]:PORT'
     Debug using a TCP connection to PORT on HOST.  The HOST may be
     either a host name, a numeric IPv4 address, or a numeric IPv6
     address (with or without the square brackets to separate the
     address from the port); PORT must be a decimal number.  The HOST
     could be the target machine itself, if it is directly connected to
     the net, or it might be a terminal server which in turn has a
     serial line to the target.

     For example, to connect to port 2828 on a terminal server named
     'manyfarms':

          target remote manyfarms:2828

     To connect to port 2828 on a terminal server whose address is
     '2001:0db8:85a3:0000:0000:8a2e:0370:7334', you can either use the
     square bracket syntax:

          target remote [2001:0db8:85a3:0000:0000:8a2e:0370:7334]:2828

     or explicitly specify the IPv6 protocol:

          target remote tcp6:2001:0db8:85a3:0000:0000:8a2e:0370:7334:2828

     This last example may be confusing to the reader, because there is
     no visible separation between the hostname and the port number.
     Therefore, we recommend the user to provide IPv6 addresses using
     square brackets for clarity.  However, it is important to mention
     that for GDB there is no ambiguity: the number after the last colon
     is considered to be the port number.

     If your remote target is actually running on the same machine as
     your debugger session (e.g. a simulator for your target running on
     the same host), you can omit the hostname.  For example, to connect
     to port 1234 on your local machine:

          target remote :1234

     Note that the colon is still required here.

'target remote udp:HOST:PORT'
'target remote udp:[HOST]:PORT'
'target remote udp4:HOST:PORT'
'target remote udp6:[HOST]:PORT'
'target extended-remote udp:HOST:PORT'
'target extended-remote udp:HOST:PORT'
'target extended-remote udp:[HOST]:PORT'
'target extended-remote udp4:HOST:PORT'
'target extended-remote udp6:HOST:PORT'
'target extended-remote udp6:[HOST]:PORT'
     Debug using UDP packets to PORT on HOST.  For example, to connect
     to UDP port 2828 on a terminal server named 'manyfarms':

          target remote udp:manyfarms:2828

     When using a UDP connection for remote debugging, you should keep
     in mind that the 'U' stands for "Unreliable".  UDP can silently
     drop packets on busy or unreliable networks, which will cause havoc
     with your debugging session.

'target remote | COMMAND'
'target extended-remote | COMMAND'
     Run COMMAND in the background and communicate with it using a pipe.
     The COMMAND is a shell command, to be parsed and expanded by the
     system's command shell, '/bin/sh'; it should expect remote protocol
     packets on its standard input, and send replies on its standard
     output.  You could use this to run a stand-alone simulator that
     speaks the remote debugging protocol, to make net connections using
     programs like 'ssh', or for other similar tricks.

     If COMMAND closes its standard output (perhaps by exiting), GDB
     will try to send it a 'SIGTERM' signal.  (If the program has
     already exited, this will have no effect.)

   Whenever GDB is waiting for the remote program, if you type the
interrupt character (often 'Ctrl-c'), GDB attempts to stop the program.
This may or may not succeed, depending in part on the hardware and the
serial drivers the remote system uses.  If you type the interrupt
character once again, GDB displays this prompt:

     Interrupted while waiting for the program.
     Give up (and stop debugging it)?  (y or n)

   In 'target remote' mode, if you type 'y', GDB abandons the remote
debugging session.  (If you decide you want to try again later, you can
use 'target remote' again to connect once more.)  If you type 'n', GDB
goes back to waiting.

   In 'target extended-remote' mode, typing 'n' will leave GDB connected
to the target.

'detach'
     When you have finished debugging the remote program, you can use
     the 'detach' command to release it from GDB control.  Detaching
     from the target normally resumes its execution, but the results
     will depend on your particular remote stub.  After the 'detach'
     command in 'target remote' mode, GDB is free to connect to another
     target.  In 'target extended-remote' mode, GDB is still connected
     to the target.

'disconnect'
     The 'disconnect' command closes the connection to the target, and
     the target is generally not resumed.  It will wait for GDB (this
     instance or another one) to connect and continue debugging.  After
     the 'disconnect' command, GDB is again free to connect to another
     target.

'monitor CMD'
     This command allows you to send arbitrary commands directly to the
     remote monitor.  Since GDB doesn't care about the commands it sends
     like this, this command is the way to extend GDB--you can add new
     commands that only the external monitor will understand and
     implement.

File: gdb.info,  Node: File Transfer,  Next: Server,  Prev: Connecting,  Up: Remote Debugging

