20.3 Using the 'gdbserver' Program
==================================

'gdbserver' is a control program for Unix-like systems, which allows you
to connect your program with a remote GDB via 'target remote' or 'target
extended-remote'--but without linking in the usual debugging stub.

   'gdbserver' is not a complete replacement for the debugging stubs,
because it requires essentially the same operating-system facilities
that GDB itself does.  In fact, a system that can run 'gdbserver' to
connect to a remote GDB could also run GDB locally!  'gdbserver' is
sometimes useful nevertheless, because it is a much smaller program than
GDB itself.  It is also easier to port than all of GDB, so you may be
able to get started more quickly on a new system by using 'gdbserver'.
Finally, if you develop code for real-time systems, you may find that
the tradeoffs involved in real-time operation make it more convenient to
do as much development work as possible on another system, for example
by cross-compiling.  You can use 'gdbserver' to make a similar choice
for debugging.

   GDB and 'gdbserver' communicate via either a serial line or a TCP
connection, using the standard GDB remote serial protocol.

     _Warning:_ 'gdbserver' does not have any built-in security.  Do not
     run 'gdbserver' connected to any public network; a GDB connection
     to 'gdbserver' provides access to the target system with the same
     privileges as the user running 'gdbserver'.

20.3.1 Running 'gdbserver'
--------------------------

Run 'gdbserver' on the target system.  You need a copy of the program
you want to debug, including any libraries it requires.  'gdbserver'
does not need your program's symbol table, so you can strip the program
if necessary to save space.  GDB on the host system does all the symbol
handling.

   To use the server, you must tell it how to communicate with GDB; the
name of your program; and the arguments for your program.  The usual
syntax is:

     target> gdbserver COMM PROGRAM [ ARGS ... ]

   COMM is either a device name (to use a serial line), or a TCP
hostname and portnumber, or '-' or 'stdio' to use stdin/stdout of
'gdbserver'.  For example, to debug Emacs with the argument 'foo.txt'
and communicate with GDB over the serial port '/dev/com1':

     target> gdbserver /dev/com1 emacs foo.txt

   'gdbserver' waits passively for the host GDB to communicate with it.

   To use a TCP connection instead of a serial line:

     target> gdbserver host:2345 emacs foo.txt

   The only difference from the previous example is the first argument,
specifying that you are communicating with the host GDB via TCP. The
'host:2345' argument means that 'gdbserver' is to expect a TCP
connection from machine 'host' to local TCP port 2345.  (Currently, the
'host' part is ignored.)  You can choose any number you want for the
port number as long as it does not conflict with any TCP ports already
in use on the target system (for example, '23' is reserved for
'telnet').(1)  You must use the same port number with the host GDB
'target remote' command.

   The 'stdio' connection is useful when starting 'gdbserver' with ssh:

     (gdb) target remote | ssh -T hostname gdbserver - hello

   The '-T' option to ssh is provided because we don't need a remote
pty, and we don't want escape-character handling.  Ssh does this by
default when a command is provided, the flag is provided to make it
explicit.  You could elide it if you want to.

   Programs started with stdio-connected gdbserver have '/dev/null' for
'stdin', and 'stdout','stderr' are sent back to gdb for display through
a pipe connected to gdbserver.  Both 'stdout' and 'stderr' use the same
pipe.

20.3.1.1 Attaching to a Running Program
.......................................

On some targets, 'gdbserver' can also attach to running programs.  This
is accomplished via the '--attach' argument.  The syntax is:

     target> gdbserver --attach COMM PID

   PID is the process ID of a currently running process.  It isn't
necessary to point 'gdbserver' at a binary for the running process.

   In 'target extended-remote' mode, you can also attach using the GDB
attach command (*note Attaching in Types of Remote Connections::).

   You can debug processes by name instead of process ID if your target
has the 'pidof' utility:

     target> gdbserver --attach COMM `pidof PROGRAM`

   In case more than one copy of PROGRAM is running, or PROGRAM has
multiple threads, most versions of 'pidof' support the '-s' option to
only return the first process ID.

20.3.1.2 TCP Port Allocation Lifecycle of 'gdbserver'
.....................................................

This section applies only when 'gdbserver' is run to listen on a TCP
port.

   'gdbserver' normally terminates after all of its debugged processes
have terminated in 'target remote' mode.  On the other hand, for 'target
extended-remote', 'gdbserver' stays running even with no processes left.
GDB normally terminates the spawned debugged process on its exit, which
normally also terminates 'gdbserver' in the 'target remote' mode.
Therefore, when the connection drops unexpectedly, and GDB cannot ask
'gdbserver' to kill its debugged processes, 'gdbserver' stays running
even in the 'target remote' mode.

   When 'gdbserver' stays running, GDB can connect to it again later.
Such reconnecting is useful for features like *note disconnected
tracing::.  For completeness, at most one GDB can be connected at a
time.

   By default, 'gdbserver' keeps the listening TCP port open, so that
subsequent connections are possible.  However, if you start 'gdbserver'
with the '--once' option, it will stop listening for any further
connection attempts after connecting to the first GDB session.  This
means no further connections to 'gdbserver' will be possible after the
first one.  It also means 'gdbserver' will terminate after the first
connection with remote GDB has closed, even for unexpectedly closed
connections and even in the 'target extended-remote' mode.  The '--once'
option allows reusing the same port number for connecting to multiple
instances of 'gdbserver' running on the same host, since each instance
closes its port after the first connection.

20.3.1.3 Other Command-Line Arguments for 'gdbserver'
.....................................................

You can use the '--multi' option to start 'gdbserver' without specifying
a program to debug or a process to attach to.  Then you can attach in
'target extended-remote' mode and run or attach to a program.  For more
information, *note --multi Option in Types of Remote Connnections::.

   The '--debug' option tells 'gdbserver' to display extra status
information about the debugging process.  The '--remote-debug' option
tells 'gdbserver' to display remote protocol debug output.  The
'--debug-file=FILENAME' option tells 'gdbserver' to write any debug
output to the given FILENAME.  These options are intended for
'gdbserver' development and for bug reports to the developers.

   The '--debug-format=option1[,option2,...]' option tells 'gdbserver'
to include additional information in each output.  Possible options are:

'none'
     Turn off all extra information in debugging output.
'all'
     Turn on all extra information in debugging output.
'timestamps'
     Include a timestamp in each line of debugging output.

   Options are processed in order.  Thus, for example, if 'none' appears
last then no additional information is added to debugging output.

   The '--wrapper' option specifies a wrapper to launch programs for
debugging.  The option should be followed by the name of the wrapper,
then any command-line arguments to pass to the wrapper, then '--'
indicating the end of the wrapper arguments.

   'gdbserver' runs the specified wrapper program with a combined
command line including the wrapper arguments, then the name of the
program to debug, then any arguments to the program.  The wrapper runs
until it executes your program, and then GDB gains control.

   You can use any program that eventually calls 'execve' with its
arguments as a wrapper.  Several standard Unix utilities do this, e.g.
'env' and 'nohup'.  Any Unix shell script ending with 'exec "$@"' will
also work.

   For example, you can use 'env' to pass an environment variable to the
debugged program, without setting the variable in 'gdbserver''s
environment:

     $ gdbserver --wrapper env LD_PRELOAD=libtest.so -- :2222 ./testprog

   The '--selftest' option runs the self tests in 'gdbserver':

     $ gdbserver --selftest
     Ran 2 unit tests, 0 failed

   These tests are disabled in release.

20.3.2 Connecting to 'gdbserver'
--------------------------------

The basic procedure for connecting to the remote target is:

   * Run GDB on the host system.

   * Make sure you have the necessary symbol files (*note Host and
     target files::).  Load symbols for your application using the
     'file' command before you connect.  Use 'set sysroot' to locate
     target libraries (unless your GDB was compiled with the correct
     sysroot using '--with-sysroot').

   * Connect to your target (*note Connecting to a Remote Target:
     Connecting.).  For TCP connections, you must start up 'gdbserver'
     prior to using the 'target' command.  Otherwise you may get an
     error whose text depends on the host system, but which usually
     looks something like 'Connection refused'.  Don't use the 'load'
     command in GDB when using 'target remote' mode, since the program
     is already on the target.

20.3.3 Monitor Commands for 'gdbserver'
---------------------------------------

During a GDB session using 'gdbserver', you can use the 'monitor'
command to send special requests to 'gdbserver'.  Here are the available
commands.

'monitor help'
     List the available monitor commands.

'monitor set debug 0'
'monitor set debug 1'
     Disable or enable general debugging messages.

'monitor set remote-debug 0'
'monitor set remote-debug 1'
     Disable or enable specific debugging messages associated with the
     remote protocol (*note Remote Protocol::).

'monitor set debug-file filename'
'monitor set debug-file'
     Send any debug output to the given file, or to stderr.

'monitor set debug-format option1[,option2,...]'
     Specify additional text to add to debugging messages.  Possible
     options are:

     'none'
          Turn off all extra information in debugging output.
     'all'
          Turn on all extra information in debugging output.
     'timestamps'
          Include a timestamp in each line of debugging output.

     Options are processed in order.  Thus, for example, if 'none'
     appears last then no additional information is added to debugging
     output.

'monitor set libthread-db-search-path [PATH]'
     When this command is issued, PATH is a colon-separated list of
     directories to search for 'libthread_db' (*note set
     libthread-db-search-path: Threads.).  If you omit PATH,
     'libthread-db-search-path' will be reset to its default value.

     The special entry '$pdir' for 'libthread-db-search-path' is not
     supported in 'gdbserver'.

'monitor exit'
     Tell gdbserver to exit immediately.  This command should be
     followed by 'disconnect' to close the debugging session.
     'gdbserver' will detach from any attached processes and kill any
     processes it created.  Use 'monitor exit' to terminate 'gdbserver'
     at the end of a multi-process mode debug session.

20.3.4 Tracepoints Support in 'gdbserver'
-----------------------------------------

On some targets, 'gdbserver' supports tracepoints, fast tracepoints and
static tracepoints.

   For fast or static tracepoints to work, a special library called the
"in-process agent" (IPA), must be loaded in the inferior process.  This
library is built and distributed as an integral part of 'gdbserver'.  In
addition, support for static tracepoints requires building the
in-process agent library with static tracepoints support.  At present,
the UST (LTTng Userspace Tracer, <http://lttng.org/ust>) tracing engine
is supported.  This support is automatically available if UST
development headers are found in the standard include path when
'gdbserver' is built, or if 'gdbserver' was explicitly configured using
'--with-ust' to point at such headers.  You can explicitly disable the
support using '--with-ust=no'.

   There are several ways to load the in-process agent in your program:

'Specifying it as dependency at link time'

     You can link your program dynamically with the in-process agent
     library.  On most systems, this is accomplished by adding
     '-linproctrace' to the link command.

'Using the system's preloading mechanisms'

     You can force loading the in-process agent at startup time by using
     your system's support for preloading shared libraries.  Many Unixes
     support the concept of preloading user defined libraries.  In most
     cases, you do that by specifying 'LD_PRELOAD=libinproctrace.so' in
     the environment.  See also the description of 'gdbserver''s
     '--wrapper' command line option.

'Using GDB to force loading the agent at run time'

     On some systems, you can force the inferior to load a shared
     library, by calling a dynamic loader function in the inferior that
     takes care of dynamically looking up and loading a shared library.
     On most Unix systems, the function is 'dlopen'.  You'll use the
     'call' command for that.  For example:

          (gdb) call dlopen ("libinproctrace.so", ...)

     Note that on most Unix systems, for the 'dlopen' function to be
     available, the program needs to be linked with '-ldl'.

   On systems that have a userspace dynamic loader, like most Unix
systems, when you connect to 'gdbserver' using 'target remote', you'll
find that the program is stopped at the dynamic loader's entry point,
and no shared library has been loaded in the program's address space
yet, including the in-process agent.  In that case, before being able to
use any of the fast or static tracepoints features, you need to let the
loader run and load the shared libraries.  The simplest way to do that
is to run the program to the main procedure.  E.g., if debugging a C or
C++ program, start 'gdbserver' like so:

     $ gdbserver :9999 myprogram

   Start GDB and connect to 'gdbserver' like so, and run to main:

     $ gdb myprogram
     (gdb) target remote myhost:9999
     0x00007f215893ba60 in ?? () from /lib64/ld-linux-x86-64.so.2
     (gdb) b main
     (gdb) continue

   The in-process tracing agent library should now be loaded into the
process; you can confirm it with the 'info sharedlibrary' command, which
will list 'libinproctrace.so' as loaded in the process.  You are now
ready to install fast tracepoints, list static tracepoint markers, probe
static tracepoints markers, and start tracing.

   ---------- Footnotes ----------

   (1) If you choose a port number that conflicts with another service,
'gdbserver' prints an error message and exits.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Remote Configuration,  Next: Remote Stub,  Prev: Server,  Up: Remote Debugging

