20.5 Implementing a Remote Stub
===============================

The stub files provided with GDB implement the target side of the
communication protocol, and the GDB side is implemented in the GDB
source file 'remote.c'.  Normally, you can simply allow these
subroutines to communicate, and ignore the details.  (If you're
implementing your own stub file, you can still ignore the details: start
with one of the existing stub files.  'sparc-stub.c' is the best
organized, and therefore the easiest to read.)

   To debug a program running on another machine (the debugging "target"
machine), you must first arrange for all the usual prerequisites for the
program to run by itself.  For example, for a C program, you need:

  1. A startup routine to set up the C runtime environment; these
     usually have a name like 'crt0'.  The startup routine may be
     supplied by your hardware supplier, or you may have to write your
     own.

  2. A C subroutine library to support your program's subroutine calls,
     notably managing input and output.

  3. A way of getting your program to the other machine--for example, a
     download program.  These are often supplied by the hardware
     manufacturer, but you may have to write your own from hardware
     documentation.

   The next step is to arrange for your program to use a serial port to
communicate with the machine where GDB is running (the "host" machine).
In general terms, the scheme looks like this:

_On the host,_
     GDB already understands how to use this protocol; when everything
     else is set up, you can simply use the 'target remote' command
     (*note Specifying a Debugging Target: Targets.).

_On the target,_
     you must link with your program a few special-purpose subroutines
     that implement the GDB remote serial protocol.  The file containing
     these subroutines is called a "debugging stub".

     On certain remote targets, you can use an auxiliary program
     'gdbserver' instead of linking a stub into your program.  *Note
     Using the 'gdbserver' Program: Server, for details.

   The debugging stub is specific to the architecture of the remote
machine; for example, use 'sparc-stub.c' to debug programs on SPARC
boards.

   These working remote stubs are distributed with GDB:

'i386-stub.c'
     For Intel 386 and compatible architectures.

'm68k-stub.c'
     For Motorola 680x0 architectures.

'sh-stub.c'
     For Renesas SH architectures.

'sparc-stub.c'
     For SPARC architectures.

'sparcl-stub.c'
     For Fujitsu SPARCLITE architectures.

   The 'README' file in the GDB distribution may list other recently
added stubs.

* Menu:

* Stub Contents::       What the stub can do for you
* Bootstrapping::       What you must do for the stub
* Debug Session::       Putting it all together

File: gdb.info,  Node: Stub Contents,  Next: Bootstrapping,  Up: Remote Stub

20.5.1 What the Stub Can Do for You
-----------------------------------

The debugging stub for your architecture supplies these three
subroutines:

'set_debug_traps'
     This routine arranges for 'handle_exception' to run when your
     program stops.  You must call this subroutine explicitly in your
     program's startup code.

'handle_exception'
     This is the central workhorse, but your program never calls it
     explicitly--the setup code arranges for 'handle_exception' to run
     when a trap is triggered.

     'handle_exception' takes control when your program stops during
     execution (for example, on a breakpoint), and mediates
     communications with GDB on the host machine.  This is where the
     communications protocol is implemented; 'handle_exception' acts as
     the GDB representative on the target machine.  It begins by sending
     summary information on the state of your program, then continues to
     execute, retrieving and transmitting any information GDB needs,
     until you execute a GDB command that makes your program resume; at
     that point, 'handle_exception' returns control to your own code on
     the target machine.

'breakpoint'
     Use this auxiliary subroutine to make your program contain a
     breakpoint.  Depending on the particular situation, this may be the
     only way for GDB to get control.  For instance, if your target
     machine has some sort of interrupt button, you won't need to call
     this; pressing the interrupt button transfers control to
     'handle_exception'--in effect, to GDB.  On some machines, simply
     receiving characters on the serial port may also trigger a trap;
     again, in that situation, you don't need to call 'breakpoint' from
     your own program--simply running 'target remote' from the host GDB
     session gets control.

     Call 'breakpoint' if none of these is true, or if you simply want
     to make certain your program stops at a predetermined point for the
     start of your debugging session.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Bootstrapping,  Next: Debug Session,  Prev: Stub Contents,  Up: Remote Stub

20.5.2 What You Must Do for the Stub
------------------------------------

The debugging stubs that come with GDB are set up for a particular chip
architecture, but they have no information about the rest of your
debugging target machine.

   First of all you need to tell the stub how to communicate with the
serial port.

'int getDebugChar()'
     Write this subroutine to read a single character from the serial
     port.  It may be identical to 'getchar' for your target system; a
     different name is used to allow you to distinguish the two if you
     wish.

'void putDebugChar(int)'
     Write this subroutine to write a single character to the serial
     port.  It may be identical to 'putchar' for your target system; a
     different name is used to allow you to distinguish the two if you
     wish.

   If you want GDB to be able to stop your program while it is running,
you need to use an interrupt-driven serial driver, and arrange for it to
stop when it receives a '^C' ('\003', the control-C character).  That is
the character which GDB uses to tell the remote system to stop.

   Getting the debugging target to return the proper status to GDB
probably requires changes to the standard stub; one quick and dirty way
is to just execute a breakpoint instruction (the "dirty" part is that
GDB reports a 'SIGTRAP' instead of a 'SIGINT').

   Other routines you need to supply are:

'void exceptionHandler (int EXCEPTION_NUMBER, void *EXCEPTION_ADDRESS)'
     Write this function to install EXCEPTION_ADDRESS in the exception
     handling tables.  You need to do this because the stub does not
     have any way of knowing what the exception handling tables on your
     target system are like (for example, the processor's table might be
     in ROM, containing entries which point to a table in RAM).  The
     EXCEPTION_NUMBER specifies the exception which should be changed;
     its meaning is architecture-dependent (for example, different
     numbers might represent divide by zero, misaligned access, etc).
     When this exception occurs, control should be transferred directly
     to EXCEPTION_ADDRESS, and the processor state (stack, registers,
     and so on) should be just as it is when a processor exception
     occurs.  So if you want to use a jump instruction to reach
     EXCEPTION_ADDRESS, it should be a simple jump, not a jump to
     subroutine.

     For the 386, EXCEPTION_ADDRESS should be installed as an interrupt
     gate so that interrupts are masked while the handler runs.  The
     gate should be at privilege level 0 (the most privileged level).
     The SPARC and 68k stubs are able to mask interrupts themselves
     without help from 'exceptionHandler'.

'void flush_i_cache()'
     On SPARC and SPARCLITE only, write this subroutine to flush the
     instruction cache, if any, on your target machine.  If there is no
     instruction cache, this subroutine may be a no-op.

     On target machines that have instruction caches, GDB requires this
     function to make certain that the state of your program is stable.

You must also make sure this library routine is available:

'void *memset(void *, int, int)'
     This is the standard library function 'memset' that sets an area of
     memory to a known value.  If you have one of the free versions of
     'libc.a', 'memset' can be found there; otherwise, you must either
     obtain it from your hardware manufacturer, or write your own.

   If you do not use the GNU C compiler, you may need other standard
library subroutines as well; this varies from one stub to another, but
in general the stubs are likely to use any of the common library
subroutines which 'GCC' generates as inline code.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Debug Session,  Prev: Bootstrapping,  Up: Remote Stub

20.5.3 Putting It All Together
------------------------------

In summary, when your program is ready to debug, you must follow these
steps.

  1. Make sure you have defined the supporting low-level routines (*note
     What You Must Do for the Stub: Bootstrapping.):
          'getDebugChar', 'putDebugChar',
          'flush_i_cache', 'memset', 'exceptionHandler'.

  2. Insert these lines in your program's startup code, before the main
     procedure is called:

          set_debug_traps();
          breakpoint();

     On some machines, when a breakpoint trap is raised, the hardware
     automatically makes the PC point to the instruction after the
     breakpoint.  If your machine doesn't do that, you may need to
     adjust 'handle_exception' to arrange for it to return to the
     instruction after the breakpoint on this first invocation, so that
     your program doesn't keep hitting the initial breakpoint instead of
     making progress.

  3. For the 680x0 stub only, you need to provide a variable called
     'exceptionHook'.  Normally you just use:

          void (*exceptionHook)() = 0;

     but if before calling 'set_debug_traps', you set it to point to a
     function in your program, that function is called when 'GDB'
     continues after stopping on a trap (for example, bus error).  The
     function indicated by 'exceptionHook' is called with one parameter:
     an 'int' which is the exception number.

  4. Compile and link together: your program, the GDB debugging stub for
     your target architecture, and the supporting subroutines.

  5. Make sure you have a serial connection between your target machine
     and the GDB host, and identify the serial port on the host.

  6. Download your program to your target machine (or get it there by
     whatever means the manufacturer provides), and start it.

  7. Start GDB on the host, and connect to the target (*note Connecting
     to a Remote Target: Connecting.).

File: gdb.info,  Node: Configurations,  Next: Controlling GDB,  Prev: Remote Debugging,  Up: Top

