21.1 Native
===========

This section describes details specific to particular native
configurations.

* Menu:

* BSD libkvm Interface::	Debugging BSD kernel memory images
* Process Information::         Process information
* DJGPP Native::                Features specific to the DJGPP port
* Cygwin Native::		Features specific to the Cygwin port
* Hurd Native::                 Features specific to GNU Hurd
* Darwin::			Features specific to Darwin
* FreeBSD::			Features specific to FreeBSD

File: gdb.info,  Node: BSD libkvm Interface,  Next: Process Information,  Up: Native

21.1.1 BSD libkvm Interface
---------------------------

BSD-derived systems (FreeBSD/NetBSD/OpenBSD) have a kernel memory
interface that provides a uniform interface for accessing kernel virtual
memory images, including live systems and crash dumps.  GDB uses this
interface to allow you to debug live kernels and kernel crash dumps on
many native BSD configurations.  This is implemented as a special 'kvm'
debugging target.  For debugging a live system, load the currently
running kernel into GDB and connect to the 'kvm' target:

     (gdb) target kvm

   For debugging crash dumps, provide the file name of the crash dump as
an argument:

     (gdb) target kvm /var/crash/bsd.0

   Once connected to the 'kvm' target, the following commands are
available:

'kvm pcb'
     Set current context from the "Process Control Block" (PCB) address.

'kvm proc'
     Set current context from proc address.  This command isn't
     available on modern FreeBSD systems.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Process Information,  Next: DJGPP Native,  Prev: BSD libkvm Interface,  Up: Native

21.1.2 Process Information
--------------------------

Some operating systems provide interfaces to fetch additional
information about running processes beyond memory and per-thread
register state.  If GDB is configured for an operating system with a
supported interface, the command 'info proc' is available to report
information about the process running your program, or about any process
running on your system.

   One supported interface is a facility called '/proc' that can be used
to examine the image of a running process using file-system subroutines.
This facility is supported on GNU/Linux and Solaris systems.

   On FreeBSD and NetBSD systems, system control nodes are used to query
process information.

   In addition, some systems may provide additional process information
in core files.  Note that a core file may include a subset of the
information available from a live process.  Process information is
currently available from cores created on GNU/Linux and FreeBSD systems.

'info proc'
'info proc PROCESS-ID'
     Summarize available information about a process.  If a process ID
     is specified by PROCESS-ID, display information about that process;
     otherwise display information about the program being debugged.
     The summary includes the debugged process ID, the command line used
     to invoke it, its current working directory, and its executable
     file's absolute file name.

     On some systems, PROCESS-ID can be of the form '[PID]/TID' which
     specifies a certain thread ID within a process.  If the optional
     PID part is missing, it means a thread from the process being
     debugged (the leading '/' still needs to be present, or else GDB
     will interpret the number as a process ID rather than a thread ID).

'info proc cmdline'
     Show the original command line of the process.  This command is
     supported on GNU/Linux, FreeBSD and NetBSD.

'info proc cwd'
     Show the current working directory of the process.  This command is
     supported on GNU/Linux, FreeBSD and NetBSD.

'info proc exe'
     Show the name of executable of the process.  This command is
     supported on GNU/Linux, FreeBSD and NetBSD.

'info proc files'
     Show the file descriptors open by the process.  For each open file
     descriptor, GDB shows its number, type (file, directory, character
     device, socket), file pointer offset, and the name of the resource
     open on the descriptor.  The resource name can be a file name (for
     files, directories, and devices) or a protocol followed by socket
     address (for network connections).  This command is supported on
     FreeBSD.

     This example shows the open file descriptors for a process using a
     tty for standard input and output as well as two network sockets:

          (gdb) info proc files 22136
          process 22136
          Open files:

                FD   Type     Offset   Flags   Name
              text   file          - r-------- /usr/bin/ssh
              ctty    chr          - rw------- /dev/pts/20
               cwd    dir          - r-------- /usr/home/john
              root    dir          - r-------- /
                 0    chr  0x32933a4 rw------- /dev/pts/20
                 1    chr  0x32933a4 rw------- /dev/pts/20
                 2    chr  0x32933a4 rw------- /dev/pts/20
                 3 socket        0x0 rw----n-- tcp4 10.0.1.2:53014 -> 10.0.1.10:22
                 4 socket        0x0 rw------- unix stream:/tmp/ssh-FIt89oAzOn5f/agent.2456

'info proc mappings'
     Report the memory address space ranges accessible in a process.  On
     Solaris, FreeBSD and NetBSD systems, each memory range includes
     information on whether the process has read, write, or execute
     access rights to each range.  On GNU/Linux, FreeBSD and NetBSD
     systems, each memory range includes the object file which is mapped
     to that range.

'info proc stat'
'info proc status'
     Show additional process-related information, including the user ID
     and group ID; virtual memory usage; the signals that are pending,
     blocked, and ignored; its TTY; its consumption of system and user
     time; its stack size; its 'nice' value; etc.  These commands are
     supported on GNU/Linux, FreeBSD and NetBSD.

     For GNU/Linux systems, see the 'proc' man page for more information
     (type 'man 5 proc' from your shell prompt).

     For FreeBSD and NetBSD systems, 'info proc stat' is an alias for
     'info proc status'.

'info proc all'
     Show all the information about the process described under all of
     the above 'info proc' subcommands.

'set procfs-trace'
     This command enables and disables tracing of 'procfs' API calls.

'show procfs-trace'
     Show the current state of 'procfs' API call tracing.

'set procfs-file FILE'
     Tell GDB to write 'procfs' API trace to the named FILE.  GDB
     appends the trace info to the previous contents of the file.  The
     default is to display the trace on the standard output.

'show procfs-file'
     Show the file to which 'procfs' API trace is written.

'proc-trace-entry'
'proc-trace-exit'
'proc-untrace-entry'
'proc-untrace-exit'
     These commands enable and disable tracing of entries into and exits
     from the 'syscall' interface.

'info pidlist'
     For QNX Neutrino only, this command displays the list of all the
     processes and all the threads within each process.

'info meminfo'
     For QNX Neutrino only, this command displays the list of all
     mapinfos.

File: gdb.info,  Node: DJGPP Native,  Next: Cygwin Native,  Prev: Process Information,  Up: Native

21.1.3 Features for Debugging DJGPP Programs
--------------------------------------------

DJGPP is a port of the GNU development tools to MS-DOS and MS-Windows.
DJGPP programs are 32-bit protected-mode programs that use the "DPMI"
(DOS Protected-Mode Interface) API to run on top of real-mode DOS
systems and their emulations.

   GDB supports native debugging of DJGPP programs, and defines a few
commands specific to the DJGPP port.  This subsection describes those
commands.

'info dos'
     This is a prefix of DJGPP-specific commands which print information
     about the target system and important OS structures.

'info dos sysinfo'
     This command displays assorted information about the underlying
     platform: the CPU type and features, the OS version and flavor, the
     DPMI version, and the available conventional and DPMI memory.

'info dos gdt'
'info dos ldt'
'info dos idt'
     These 3 commands display entries from, respectively, Global, Local,
     and Interrupt Descriptor Tables (GDT, LDT, and IDT). The descriptor
     tables are data structures which store a descriptor for each
     segment that is currently in use.  The segment's selector is an
     index into a descriptor table; the table entry for that index holds
     the descriptor's base address and limit, and its attributes and
     access rights.

     A typical DJGPP program uses 3 segments: a code segment, a data
     segment (used for both data and the stack), and a DOS segment
     (which allows access to DOS/BIOS data structures and absolute
     addresses in conventional memory).  However, the DPMI host will
     usually define additional segments in order to support the DPMI
     environment.

     These commands allow to display entries from the descriptor tables.
     Without an argument, all entries from the specified table are
     displayed.  An argument, which should be an integer expression,
     means display a single entry whose index is given by the argument.
     For example, here's a convenient way to display information about
     the debugged program's data segment:

     (gdb) info dos ldt $ds
     0x13f: base=0x11970000 limit=0x0009ffff 32-Bit Data (Read/Write, Exp-up)

     This comes in handy when you want to see whether a pointer is
     outside the data segment's limit (i.e. "garbled").

'info dos pde'
'info dos pte'
     These two commands display entries from, respectively, the Page
     Directory and the Page Tables.  Page Directories and Page Tables
     are data structures which control how virtual memory addresses are
     mapped into physical addresses.  A Page Table includes an entry for
     every page of memory that is mapped into the program's address
     space; there may be several Page Tables, each one holding up to
     4096 entries.  A Page Directory has up to 4096 entries, one each
     for every Page Table that is currently in use.

     Without an argument, 'info dos pde' displays the entire Page
     Directory, and 'info dos pte' displays all the entries in all of
     the Page Tables.  An argument, an integer expression, given to the
     'info dos pde' command means display only that entry from the Page
     Directory table.  An argument given to the 'info dos pte' command
     means display entries from a single Page Table, the one pointed to
     by the specified entry in the Page Directory.

     These commands are useful when your program uses "DMA" (Direct
     Memory Access), which needs physical addresses to program the DMA
     controller.

     These commands are supported only with some DPMI servers.

'info dos address-pte ADDR'
     This command displays the Page Table entry for a specified linear
     address.  The argument ADDR is a linear address which should
     already have the appropriate segment's base address added to it,
     because this command accepts addresses which may belong to _any_
     segment.  For example, here's how to display the Page Table entry
     for the page where a variable 'i' is stored:

     (gdb) info dos address-pte __djgpp_base_address + (char *)&i
     Page Table entry for address 0x11a00d30:
     Base=0x02698000 Dirty Acc. Not-Cached Write-Back Usr Read-Write +0xd30

     This says that 'i' is stored at offset '0xd30' from the page whose
     physical base address is '0x02698000', and shows all the attributes
     of that page.

     Note that you must cast the addresses of variables to a 'char *',
     since otherwise the value of '__djgpp_base_address', the base
     address of all variables and functions in a DJGPP program, will be
     added using the rules of C pointer arithmetics: if 'i' is declared
     an 'int', GDB will add 4 times the value of '__djgpp_base_address'
     to the address of 'i'.

     Here's another example, it displays the Page Table entry for the
     transfer buffer:

     (gdb) info dos address-pte *((unsigned *)&_go32_info_block + 3)
     Page Table entry for address 0x29110:
     Base=0x00029000 Dirty Acc. Not-Cached Write-Back Usr Read-Write +0x110

     (The '+ 3' offset is because the transfer buffer's address is the
     3rd member of the '_go32_info_block' structure.)  The output
     clearly shows that this DPMI server maps the addresses in
     conventional memory 1:1, i.e. the physical ('0x00029000' + '0x110')
     and linear ('0x29110') addresses are identical.

     This command is supported only with some DPMI servers.

   In addition to native debugging, the DJGPP port supports remote
debugging via a serial data link.  The following commands are specific
to remote serial debugging in the DJGPP port of GDB.

'set com1base ADDR'
     This command sets the base I/O port address of the 'COM1' serial
     port.

'set com1irq IRQ'
     This command sets the "Interrupt Request" ('IRQ') line to use for
     the 'COM1' serial port.

     There are similar commands 'set com2base', 'set com3irq', etc. for
     setting the port address and the 'IRQ' lines for the other 3 COM
     ports.

     The related commands 'show com1base', 'show com1irq' etc. display
     the current settings of the base address and the 'IRQ' lines used
     by the COM ports.

'info serial'
     This command prints the status of the 4 DOS serial ports.  For each
     port, it prints whether it's active or not, its I/O base address
     and IRQ number, whether it uses a 16550-style FIFO, its baudrate,
     and the counts of various errors encountered so far.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Cygwin Native,  Next: Hurd Native,  Prev: DJGPP Native,  Up: Native

21.1.4 Features for Debugging MS Windows PE Executables
-------------------------------------------------------

GDB supports native debugging of MS Windows programs, including DLLs
with and without symbolic debugging information.

   MS-Windows programs that call 'SetConsoleMode' to switch off the
special meaning of the 'Ctrl-C' keystroke cannot be interrupted by
typing 'C-c'.  For this reason, GDB on MS-Windows supports 'C-<BREAK>'
as an alternative interrupt key sequence, which can be used to interrupt
the debuggee even if it ignores 'C-c'.

   There are various additional Cygwin-specific commands, described in
this section.  Working with DLLs that have no debugging symbols is
described in *note Non-debug DLL Symbols::.

'info w32'
     This is a prefix of MS Windows-specific commands which print
     information about the target system and important OS structures.

'info w32 selector'
     This command displays information returned by the Win32 API
     'GetThreadSelectorEntry' function.  It takes an optional argument
     that is evaluated to a long value to give the information about
     this given selector.  Without argument, this command displays
     information about the six segment registers.

'info w32 thread-information-block'
     This command displays thread specific information stored in the
     Thread Information Block (readable on the X86 CPU family using
     '$fs' selector for 32-bit programs and '$gs' for 64-bit programs).

'signal-event ID'
     This command signals an event with user-provided ID.  Used to
     resume crashing process when attached to it using MS-Windows JIT
     debugging (AeDebug).

     To use it, create or edit the following keys in
     'HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\AeDebug' and/or
     'HKLM\SOFTWARE\Wow6432Node\Microsoft\Windows
     NT\CurrentVersion\AeDebug' (for x86_64 versions):

        - 'Debugger' (REG_SZ) -- a command to launch the debugger.
          Suggested command is: 'FULLY-QUALIFIED-PATH-TO-GDB.EXE -ex
          "attach %ld" -ex "signal-event %ld" -ex "continue"'.

          The first '%ld' will be replaced by the process ID of the
          crashing process, the second '%ld' will be replaced by the ID
          of the event that blocks the crashing process, waiting for GDB
          to attach.

        - 'Auto' (REG_SZ) -- either '1' or '0'.  '1' will make the
          system run debugger specified by the Debugger key
          automatically, '0' will cause a dialog box with "OK" and
          "Cancel" buttons to appear, which allows the user to either
          terminate the crashing process (OK) or debug it (Cancel).

'set cygwin-exceptions MODE'
     If MODE is 'on', GDB will break on exceptions that happen inside
     the Cygwin DLL. If MODE is 'off', GDB will delay recognition of
     exceptions, and may ignore some exceptions which seem to be caused
     by internal Cygwin DLL "bookkeeping".  This option is meant
     primarily for debugging the Cygwin DLL itself; the default value is
     'off' to avoid annoying GDB users with false 'SIGSEGV' signals.

'show cygwin-exceptions'
     Displays whether GDB will break on exceptions that happen inside
     the Cygwin DLL itself.

'set new-console MODE'
     If MODE is 'on' the debuggee will be started in a new console on
     next start.  If MODE is 'off', the debuggee will be started in the
     same console as the debugger.

'show new-console'
     Displays whether a new console is used when the debuggee is
     started.

'set new-group MODE'
     This boolean value controls whether the debuggee should start a new
     group or stay in the same group as the debugger.  This affects the
     way the Windows OS handles 'Ctrl-C'.

'show new-group'
     Displays current value of new-group boolean.

'set debugevents'
     This boolean value adds debug output concerning kernel events
     related to the debuggee seen by the debugger.  This includes events
     that signal thread and process creation and exit, DLL loading and
     unloading, console interrupts, and debugging messages produced by
     the Windows 'OutputDebugString' API call.

'set debugexec'
     This boolean value adds debug output concerning execute events
     (such as resume thread) seen by the debugger.

'set debugexceptions'
     This boolean value adds debug output concerning exceptions in the
     debuggee seen by the debugger.

'set debugmemory'
     This boolean value adds debug output concerning debuggee memory
     reads and writes by the debugger.

'set shell'
     This boolean values specifies whether the debuggee is called via a
     shell or directly (default value is on).

'show shell'
     Displays if the debuggee will be started with a shell.

* Menu:

* Non-debug DLL Symbols::  Support for DLLs without debugging symbols

File: gdb.info,  Node: Non-debug DLL Symbols,  Up: Cygwin Native

21.1.4.1 Support for DLLs without Debugging Symbols
...................................................

Very often on windows, some of the DLLs that your program relies on do
not include symbolic debugging information (for example,
'kernel32.dll').  When GDB doesn't recognize any debugging symbols in a
DLL, it relies on the minimal amount of symbolic information contained
in the DLL's export table.  This section describes working with such
symbols, known internally to GDB as "minimal symbols".

   Note that before the debugged program has started execution, no DLLs
will have been loaded.  The easiest way around this problem is simply to
start the program -- either by setting a breakpoint or letting the
program run once to completion.

21.1.4.2 DLL Name Prefixes
..........................

In keeping with the naming conventions used by the Microsoft debugging
tools, DLL export symbols are made available with a prefix based on the
DLL name, for instance 'KERNEL32!CreateFileA'.  The plain name is also
entered into the symbol table, so 'CreateFileA' is often sufficient.  In
some cases there will be name clashes within a program (particularly if
the executable itself includes full debugging symbols) necessitating the
use of the fully qualified name when referring to the contents of the
DLL. Use single-quotes around the name to avoid the exclamation mark
("!")  being interpreted as a language operator.

   Note that the internal name of the DLL may be all upper-case, even
though the file name of the DLL is lower-case, or vice-versa.  Since
symbols within GDB are _case-sensitive_ this may cause some confusion.
If in doubt, try the 'info functions' and 'info variables' commands or
even 'maint print msymbols' (*note Symbols::).  Here's an example:

     (gdb) info function CreateFileA
     All functions matching regular expression "CreateFileA":

     Non-debugging symbols:
     0x77e885f4  CreateFileA
     0x77e885f4  KERNEL32!CreateFileA

     (gdb) info function !
     All functions matching regular expression "!":

     Non-debugging symbols:
     0x6100114c  cygwin1!__assert
     0x61004034  cygwin1!_dll_crt0@0
     0x61004240  cygwin1!dll_crt0(per_process *)
     [etc...]

21.1.4.3 Working with Minimal Symbols
.....................................

Symbols extracted from a DLL's export table do not contain very much
type information.  All that GDB can do is guess whether a symbol refers
to a function or variable depending on the linker section that contains
the symbol.  Also note that the actual contents of the memory contained
in a DLL are not available unless the program is running.  This means
that you cannot examine the contents of a variable or disassemble a
function within a DLL without a running program.

   Variables are generally treated as pointers and dereferenced
automatically.  For this reason, it is often necessary to prefix a
variable name with the address-of operator ("&") and provide explicit
type information in the command.  Here's an example of the type of
problem:

     (gdb) print 'cygwin1!__argv'
     'cygwin1!__argv' has unknown type; cast it to its declared type

     (gdb) x 'cygwin1!__argv'
     'cygwin1!__argv' has unknown type; cast it to its declared type

   And two possible solutions:

     (gdb) print ((char **)'cygwin1!__argv')[0]
     $2 = 0x22fd98 "/cygdrive/c/mydirectory/myprogram"

     (gdb) x/2x &'cygwin1!__argv'
     0x610c0aa8 <cygwin1!__argv>:    0x10021608      0x00000000
     (gdb) x/x 0x10021608
     0x10021608:     0x0022fd98
     (gdb) x/s 0x0022fd98
     0x22fd98:        "/cygdrive/c/mydirectory/myprogram"

   Setting a break point within a DLL is possible even before the
program starts execution.  However, under these circumstances, GDB can't
examine the initial instructions of the function in order to skip the
function's frame set-up code.  You can work around this by using "*&" to
set the breakpoint at a raw memory address:

     (gdb) break *&'python22!PyOS_Readline'
     Breakpoint 1 at 0x1e04eff0

   The author of these extensions is not entirely convinced that setting
a break point within a shared DLL like 'kernel32.dll' is completely
safe.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Hurd Native,  Next: Darwin,  Prev: Cygwin Native,  Up: Native

21.1.5 Commands Specific to GNU Hurd Systems
--------------------------------------------

This subsection describes GDB commands specific to the GNU Hurd native
debugging.

'set signals'
'set sigs'
     This command toggles the state of inferior signal interception by
     GDB.  Mach exceptions, such as breakpoint traps, are not affected
     by this command.  'sigs' is a shorthand alias for 'signals'.

'show signals'
'show sigs'
     Show the current state of intercepting inferior's signals.

'set signal-thread'
'set sigthread'
     This command tells GDB which thread is the 'libc' signal thread.
     That thread is run when a signal is delivered to a running process.
     'set sigthread' is the shorthand alias of 'set signal-thread'.

'show signal-thread'
'show sigthread'
     These two commands show which thread will run when the inferior is
     delivered a signal.

'set stopped'
     This commands tells GDB that the inferior process is stopped, as
     with the 'SIGSTOP' signal.  The stopped process can be continued by
     delivering a signal to it.

'show stopped'
     This command shows whether GDB thinks the debuggee is stopped.

'set exceptions'
     Use this command to turn off trapping of exceptions in the
     inferior.  When exception trapping is off, neither breakpoints nor
     single-stepping will work.  To restore the default, set exception
     trapping on.

'show exceptions'
     Show the current state of trapping exceptions in the inferior.

'set task pause'
     This command toggles task suspension when GDB has control.  Setting
     it to on takes effect immediately, and the task is suspended
     whenever GDB gets control.  Setting it to off will take effect the
     next time the inferior is continued.  If this option is set to off,
     you can use 'set thread default pause on' or 'set thread pause on'
     (see below) to pause individual threads.

'show task pause'
     Show the current state of task suspension.

'set task detach-suspend-count'
     This command sets the suspend count the task will be left with when
     GDB detaches from it.

'show task detach-suspend-count'
     Show the suspend count the task will be left with when detaching.

'set task exception-port'
'set task excp'
     This command sets the task exception port to which GDB will forward
     exceptions.  The argument should be the value of the "send rights"
     of the task.  'set task excp' is a shorthand alias.

'set noninvasive'
     This command switches GDB to a mode that is the least invasive as
     far as interfering with the inferior is concerned.  This is the
     same as using 'set task pause', 'set exceptions', and 'set signals'
     to values opposite to the defaults.

'info send-rights'
'info receive-rights'
'info port-rights'
'info port-sets'
'info dead-names'
'info ports'
'info psets'
     These commands display information about, respectively, send
     rights, receive rights, port rights, port sets, and dead names of a
     task.  There are also shorthand aliases: 'info ports' for 'info
     port-rights' and 'info psets' for 'info port-sets'.

'set thread pause'
     This command toggles current thread suspension when GDB has
     control.  Setting it to on takes effect immediately, and the
     current thread is suspended whenever GDB gets control.  Setting it
     to off will take effect the next time the inferior is continued.
     Normally, this command has no effect, since when GDB has control,
     the whole task is suspended.  However, if you used 'set task pause
     off' (see above), this command comes in handy to suspend only the
     current thread.

'show thread pause'
     This command shows the state of current thread suspension.

'set thread run'
     This command sets whether the current thread is allowed to run.

'show thread run'
     Show whether the current thread is allowed to run.

'set thread detach-suspend-count'
     This command sets the suspend count GDB will leave on a thread when
     detaching.  This number is relative to the suspend count found by
     GDB when it notices the thread; use 'set thread
     takeover-suspend-count' to force it to an absolute value.

'show thread detach-suspend-count'
     Show the suspend count GDB will leave on the thread when detaching.

'set thread exception-port'
'set thread excp'
     Set the thread exception port to which to forward exceptions.  This
     overrides the port set by 'set task exception-port' (see above).
     'set thread excp' is the shorthand alias.

'set thread takeover-suspend-count'
     Normally, GDB's thread suspend counts are relative to the value GDB
     finds when it notices each thread.  This command changes the
     suspend counts to be absolute instead.

'set thread default'
'show thread default'
     Each of the above 'set thread' commands has a 'set thread default'
     counterpart (e.g., 'set thread default pause', 'set thread default
     exception-port', etc.).  The 'thread default' variety of commands
     sets the default thread properties for all threads; you can then
     change the properties of individual threads with the non-default
     commands.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Darwin,  Next: FreeBSD,  Prev: Hurd Native,  Up: Native

21.1.6 Darwin
-------------

GDB provides the following commands specific to the Darwin target:

'set debug darwin NUM'
     When set to a non zero value, enables debugging messages specific
     to the Darwin support.  Higher values produce more verbose output.

'show debug darwin'
     Show the current state of Darwin messages.

'set debug mach-o NUM'
     When set to a non zero value, enables debugging messages while GDB
     is reading Darwin object files.  ("Mach-O" is the file format used
     on Darwin for object and executable files.)  Higher values produce
     more verbose output.  This is a command to diagnose problems
     internal to GDB and should not be needed in normal usage.

'show debug mach-o'
     Show the current state of Mach-O file messages.

'set mach-exceptions on'
'set mach-exceptions off'
     On Darwin, faults are first reported as a Mach exception and are
     then mapped to a Posix signal.  Use this command to turn on
     trapping of Mach exceptions in the inferior.  This might be
     sometimes useful to better understand the cause of a fault.  The
     default is off.

'show mach-exceptions'
     Show the current state of exceptions trapping.

File: gdb.info,  Node: FreeBSD,  Prev: Darwin,  Up: Native

21.1.7 FreeBSD
--------------

When the ABI of a system call is changed in the FreeBSD kernel, this is
implemented by leaving a compatibility system call using the old ABI at
the existing number and allocating a new system call number for the
version using the new ABI. As a convenience, when a system call is
caught by name (*note catch syscall::), compatibility system calls are
also caught.

   For example, FreeBSD 12 introduced a new variant of the 'kevent'
system call and catching the 'kevent' system call by name catches both
variants:

     (gdb) catch syscall kevent
     Catchpoint 1 (syscalls 'freebsd11_kevent' [363] 'kevent' [560])
     (gdb)

File: gdb.info,  Node: Embedded OS,  Next: Embedded Processors,  Prev: Native,  Up: Configurations

