21.3 Embedded Processors
========================

This section goes into details specific to particular embedded
configurations.

   Whenever a specific embedded processor has a simulator, GDB allows to
send an arbitrary command to the simulator.

'sim COMMAND'
     Send an arbitrary COMMAND string to the simulator.  Consult the
     documentation for the specific simulator in use for information
     about acceptable commands.

* Menu:

* ARC::                         Synopsys ARC
* ARM::                         ARM
* BPF::                         eBPF
* M68K::                        Motorola M68K
* MicroBlaze::			Xilinx MicroBlaze
* MIPS Embedded::               MIPS Embedded
* OpenRISC 1000::               OpenRISC 1000 (or1k)
* PowerPC Embedded::            PowerPC Embedded
* AVR::                         Atmel AVR
* CRIS::                        CRIS
* Super-H::                     Renesas Super-H

File: gdb.info,  Node: ARC,  Next: ARM,  Up: Embedded Processors

21.3.1 Synopsys ARC
-------------------

GDB provides the following ARC-specific commands:

'set debug arc'
     Control the level of ARC specific debug messages.  Use 0 for no
     messages (the default), 1 for debug messages, and 2 for even more
     debug messages.

'show debug arc'
     Show the level of ARC specific debugging in operation.

'maint print arc arc-instruction ADDRESS'
     Print internal disassembler information about instruction at a
     given address.

File: gdb.info,  Node: ARM,  Next: BPF,  Prev: ARC,  Up: Embedded Processors

21.3.2 ARM
----------

GDB provides the following ARM-specific commands:

'set arm disassembler'
     This commands selects from a list of disassembly styles.  The
     '"std"' style is the standard style.

'show arm disassembler'
     Show the current disassembly style.

'set arm apcs32'
     This command toggles ARM operation mode between 32-bit and 26-bit.

'show arm apcs32'
     Display the current usage of the ARM 32-bit mode.

'set arm fpu FPUTYPE'
     This command sets the ARM floating-point unit (FPU) type.  The
     argument FPUTYPE can be one of these:

     'auto'
          Determine the FPU type by querying the OS ABI.
     'softfpa'
          Software FPU, with mixed-endian doubles on little-endian ARM
          processors.
     'fpa'
          GCC-compiled FPA co-processor.
     'softvfp'
          Software FPU with pure-endian doubles.
     'vfp'
          VFP co-processor.

'show arm fpu'
     Show the current type of the FPU.

'set arm abi'
     This command forces GDB to use the specified ABI.

'show arm abi'
     Show the currently used ABI.

'set arm fallback-mode (arm|thumb|auto)'
     GDB uses the symbol table, when available, to determine whether
     instructions are ARM or Thumb.  This command controls GDB's default
     behavior when the symbol table is not available.  The default is
     'auto', which causes GDB to use the current execution mode (from
     the 'T' bit in the 'CPSR' register).

'show arm fallback-mode'
     Show the current fallback instruction mode.

'set arm force-mode (arm|thumb|auto)'
     This command overrides use of the symbol table to determine whether
     instructions are ARM or Thumb.  The default is 'auto', which causes
     GDB to use the symbol table and then the setting of 'set arm
     fallback-mode'.

'show arm force-mode'
     Show the current forced instruction mode.

'set debug arm'
     Toggle whether to display ARM-specific debugging messages from the
     ARM target support subsystem.

'show debug arm'
     Show whether ARM-specific debugging messages are enabled.

'target sim [SIMARGS] ...'
     The GDB ARM simulator accepts the following optional arguments.

     '--swi-support=TYPE'
          Tell the simulator which SWI interfaces to support.  The
          argument TYPE may be a comma separated list of the following
          values.  The default value is 'all'.

          'none'
          'demon'
          'angel'
          'redboot'
          'all'

File: gdb.info,  Node: BPF,  Next: M68K,  Prev: ARM,  Up: Embedded Processors

21.3.3 BPF
----------

'target sim [SIMARGS] ...'
     The GDB BPF simulator accepts the following optional arguments.

     '--skb-data-offset=OFFSET'
          Tell the simulator the offset, measured in bytes, of the
          'skb_data' field in the kernel 'struct sk_buff' structure.
          This offset is used by some BPF specific-purpose load/store
          instructions.  Defaults to 0.

File: gdb.info,  Node: M68K,  Next: MicroBlaze,  Prev: BPF,  Up: Embedded Processors

21.3.4 M68k
-----------

The Motorola m68k configuration includes ColdFire support.

File: gdb.info,  Node: MicroBlaze,  Next: MIPS Embedded,  Prev: M68K,  Up: Embedded Processors

21.3.5 MicroBlaze
-----------------

The MicroBlaze is a soft-core processor supported on various Xilinx
FPGAs, such as Spartan or Virtex series.  Boards with these processors
usually have JTAG ports which connect to a host system running the
Xilinx Embedded Development Kit (EDK) or Software Development Kit (SDK).
This host system is used to download the configuration bitstream to the
target FPGA. The Xilinx Microprocessor Debugger (XMD) program
communicates with the target board using the JTAG interface and presents
a 'gdbserver' interface to the board.  By default 'xmd' uses port
'1234'.  (While it is possible to change this default port, it requires
the use of undocumented 'xmd' commands.  Contact Xilinx support if you
need to do this.)

   Use these GDB commands to connect to the MicroBlaze target processor.

'target remote :1234'
     Use this command to connect to the target if you are running GDB on
     the same system as 'xmd'.

'target remote XMD-HOST:1234'
     Use this command to connect to the target if it is connected to
     'xmd' running on a different system named XMD-HOST.

'load'
     Use this command to download a program to the MicroBlaze target.

'set debug microblaze N'
     Enable MicroBlaze-specific debugging messages if non-zero.

'show debug microblaze N'
     Show MicroBlaze-specific debugging level.

File: gdb.info,  Node: MIPS Embedded,  Next: OpenRISC 1000,  Prev: MicroBlaze,  Up: Embedded Processors

21.3.6 MIPS Embedded
--------------------

GDB supports these special commands for MIPS targets:

'set mipsfpu double'
'set mipsfpu single'
'set mipsfpu none'
'set mipsfpu auto'
'show mipsfpu'
     If your target board does not support the MIPS floating point
     coprocessor, you should use the command 'set mipsfpu none' (if you
     need this, you may wish to put the command in your GDB init file).
     This tells GDB how to find the return value of functions which
     return floating point values.  It also allows GDB to avoid saving
     the floating point registers when calling functions on the board.
     If you are using a floating point coprocessor with only single
     precision floating point support, as on the R4650 processor, use
     the command 'set mipsfpu single'.  The default double precision
     floating point coprocessor may be selected using 'set mipsfpu
     double'.

     In previous versions the only choices were double precision or no
     floating point, so 'set mipsfpu on' will select double precision
     and 'set mipsfpu off' will select no floating point.

     As usual, you can inquire about the 'mipsfpu' variable with 'show
     mipsfpu'.

File: gdb.info,  Node: OpenRISC 1000,  Next: PowerPC Embedded,  Prev: MIPS Embedded,  Up: Embedded Processors

21.3.7 OpenRISC 1000
--------------------

The OpenRISC 1000 provides a free RISC instruction set architecture.  It
is mainly provided as a soft-core which can run on Xilinx, Altera and
other FPGA's.

   GDB for OpenRISC supports the below commands when connecting to a
target:

'target sim'

     Runs the builtin CPU simulator which can run very basic programs
     but does not support most hardware functions like MMU. For more
     complex use cases the user is advised to run an external target,
     and connect using 'target remote'.

     Example: 'target sim'

'set debug or1k'
     Toggle whether to display OpenRISC-specific debugging messages from
     the OpenRISC target support subsystem.

'show debug or1k'
     Show whether OpenRISC-specific debugging messages are enabled.

File: gdb.info,  Node: PowerPC Embedded,  Next: AVR,  Prev: OpenRISC 1000,  Up: Embedded Processors

21.3.8 PowerPC Embedded
-----------------------

GDB supports using the DVC (Data Value Compare) register to implement in
hardware simple hardware watchpoint conditions of the form:

     (gdb) watch ADDRESS|VARIABLE \
       if  ADDRESS|VARIABLE == CONSTANT EXPRESSION

   The DVC register will be automatically used when GDB detects such
pattern in a condition expression, and the created watchpoint uses one
debug register (either the 'exact-watchpoints' option is on and the
variable is scalar, or the variable has a length of one byte).  This
feature is available in native GDB running on a Linux kernel version
2.6.34 or newer.

   When running on PowerPC embedded processors, GDB automatically uses
ranged hardware watchpoints, unless the 'exact-watchpoints' option is
on, in which case watchpoints using only one debug register are created
when watching variables of scalar types.

   You can create an artificial array to watch an arbitrary memory
region using one of the following commands (*note Expressions::):

     (gdb) watch *((char *) ADDRESS)@LENGTH
     (gdb) watch {char[LENGTH]} ADDRESS

   PowerPC embedded processors support masked watchpoints.  See the
discussion about the 'mask' argument in *note Set Watchpoints::.

   PowerPC embedded processors support hardware accelerated "ranged
breakpoints".  A ranged breakpoint stops execution of the inferior
whenever it executes an instruction at any address within the range it
specifies.  To set a ranged breakpoint in GDB, use the 'break-range'
command.

   GDB provides the following PowerPC-specific commands:

'break-range START-LOCATION, END-LOCATION'
     Set a breakpoint for an address range given by START-LOCATION and
     END-LOCATION, which can specify a function name, a line number, an
     offset of lines from the current line or from the start location,
     or an address of an instruction (see *note Specify Location::, for
     a list of all the possible ways to specify a LOCATION.)  The
     breakpoint will stop execution of the inferior whenever it executes
     an instruction at any address within the specified range,
     (including START-LOCATION and END-LOCATION.)

'set powerpc soft-float'
'show powerpc soft-float'
     Force GDB to use (or not use) a software floating point calling
     convention.  By default, GDB selects the calling convention based
     on the selected architecture and the provided executable file.

'set powerpc vector-abi'
'show powerpc vector-abi'
     Force GDB to use the specified calling convention for vector
     arguments and return values.  The valid options are 'auto';
     'generic', to avoid vector registers even if they are present;
     'altivec', to use AltiVec registers; and 'spe' to use SPE
     registers.  By default, GDB selects the calling convention based on
     the selected architecture and the provided executable file.

'set powerpc exact-watchpoints'
'show powerpc exact-watchpoints'
     Allow GDB to use only one debug register when watching a variable
     of scalar type, thus assuming that the variable is accessed through
     the address of its first byte.

File: gdb.info,  Node: AVR,  Next: CRIS,  Prev: PowerPC Embedded,  Up: Embedded Processors

21.3.9 Atmel AVR
----------------

When configured for debugging the Atmel AVR, GDB supports the following
AVR-specific commands:

'info io_registers'
     This command displays information about the AVR I/O registers.  For
     each register, GDB prints its number and value.

File: gdb.info,  Node: CRIS,  Next: Super-H,  Prev: AVR,  Up: Embedded Processors

21.3.10 CRIS
------------

When configured for debugging CRIS, GDB provides the following
CRIS-specific commands:

'set cris-version VER'
     Set the current CRIS version to VER, either '10' or '32'.  The CRIS
     version affects register names and sizes.  This command is useful
     in case autodetection of the CRIS version fails.

'show cris-version'
     Show the current CRIS version.

'set cris-dwarf2-cfi'
     Set the usage of DWARF-2 CFI for CRIS debugging.  The default is
     'on'.  Change to 'off' when using 'gcc-cris' whose version is below
     'R59'.

'show cris-dwarf2-cfi'
     Show the current state of using DWARF-2 CFI.

'set cris-mode MODE'
     Set the current CRIS mode to MODE.  It should only be changed when
     debugging in guru mode, in which case it should be set to 'guru'
     (the default is 'normal').

'show cris-mode'
     Show the current CRIS mode.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Super-H,  Prev: CRIS,  Up: Embedded Processors

21.3.11 Renesas Super-H
-----------------------

For the Renesas Super-H processor, GDB provides these commands:

'set sh calling-convention CONVENTION'
     Set the calling-convention used when calling functions from GDB.
     Allowed values are 'gcc', which is the default setting, and
     'renesas'.  With the 'gcc' setting, functions are called using the
     GCC calling convention.  If the DWARF-2 information of the called
     function specifies that the function follows the Renesas calling
     convention, the function is called using the Renesas calling
     convention.  If the calling convention is set to 'renesas', the
     Renesas calling convention is always used, regardless of the
     DWARF-2 information.  This can be used to override the default of
     'gcc' if debug information is missing, or the compiler does not
     emit the DWARF-2 calling convention entry for a function.

'show sh calling-convention'
     Show the current calling convention setting.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Architectures,  Prev: Embedded Processors,  Up: Configurations

