22.10 Optional Messages about Internal Happenings
=================================================

GDB has commands that enable optional debugging messages from various
GDB subsystems; normally these commands are of interest to GDB
maintainers, or when reporting a bug.  This section documents those
commands.

'set exec-done-display'
     Turns on or off the notification of asynchronous commands'
     completion.  When on, GDB will print a message when an asynchronous
     command finishes its execution.  The default is off.
'show exec-done-display'
     Displays the current setting of asynchronous command completion
     notification.
'set debug aarch64'
     Turns on or off display of debugging messages related to ARM
     AArch64.  The default is off.
'show debug aarch64'
     Displays the current state of displaying debugging messages related
     to ARM AArch64.
'set debug arch'
     Turns on or off display of gdbarch debugging info.  The default is
     off
'show debug arch'
     Displays the current state of displaying gdbarch debugging info.
'set debug aix-solib'
     Control display of debugging messages from the AIX shared library
     support module.  The default is off.
'show debug aix-thread'
     Show the current state of displaying AIX shared library debugging
     messages.
'set debug aix-thread'
     Display debugging messages about inner workings of the AIX thread
     module.
'show debug aix-thread'
     Show the current state of AIX thread debugging info display.
'set debug check-physname'
     Check the results of the "physname" computation.  When reading
     DWARF debugging information for C++, GDB attempts to compute each
     entity's name.  GDB can do this computation in two different ways,
     depending on exactly what information is present.  When enabled,
     this setting causes GDB to compute the names both ways and display
     any discrepancies.
'show debug check-physname'
     Show the current state of "physname" checking.
'set debug coff-pe-read'
     Control display of debugging messages related to reading of COFF/PE
     exported symbols.  The default is off.
'show debug coff-pe-read'
     Displays the current state of displaying debugging messages related
     to reading of COFF/PE exported symbols.
'set debug dwarf-die'
     Dump DWARF DIEs after they are read in.  The value is the number of
     nesting levels to print.  A value of zero turns off the display.
'show debug dwarf-die'
     Show the current state of DWARF DIE debugging.
'set debug dwarf-line'
     Turns on or off display of debugging messages related to reading
     DWARF line tables.  The default is 0 (off).  A value of 1 provides
     basic information.  A value greater than 1 provides more verbose
     information.
'show debug dwarf-line'
     Show the current state of DWARF line table debugging.
'set debug dwarf-read'
     Turns on or off display of debugging messages related to reading
     DWARF debug info.  The default is 0 (off).  A value of 1 provides
     basic information.  A value greater than 1 provides more verbose
     information.
'show debug dwarf-read'
     Show the current state of DWARF reader debugging.
'set debug displaced'
     Turns on or off display of GDB debugging info for the displaced
     stepping support.  The default is off.
'show debug displaced'
     Displays the current state of displaying GDB debugging info related
     to displaced stepping.
'set debug event'
     Turns on or off display of GDB event debugging info.  The default
     is off.
'show debug event'
     Displays the current state of displaying GDB event debugging info.
'set debug expression'
     Turns on or off display of debugging info about GDB expression
     parsing.  The default is off.
'show debug expression'
     Displays the current state of displaying debugging info about GDB
     expression parsing.
'set debug fbsd-lwp'
     Turns on or off debugging messages from the FreeBSD LWP debug
     support.
'show debug fbsd-lwp'
     Show the current state of FreeBSD LWP debugging messages.
'set debug fbsd-nat'
     Turns on or off debugging messages from the FreeBSD native target.
'show debug fbsd-nat'
     Show the current state of FreeBSD native target debugging messages.

'set debug fortran-array-slicing'
     Turns on or off display of GDB Fortran array slicing debugging
     info.  The default is off.

'show debug fortran-array-slicing'
     Displays the current state of displaying GDB Fortran array slicing
     debugging info.

'set debug frame'
     Turns on or off display of GDB frame debugging info.  The default
     is off.
'show debug frame'
     Displays the current state of displaying GDB frame debugging info.
'set debug gnu-nat'
     Turn on or off debugging messages from the GNU/Hurd debug support.
'show debug gnu-nat'
     Show the current state of GNU/Hurd debugging messages.
'set debug infrun'
     Turns on or off display of GDB debugging info for running the
     inferior.  The default is off.  'infrun.c' contains GDB's runtime
     state machine used for implementing operations such as
     single-stepping the inferior.
'show debug infrun'
     Displays the current state of GDB inferior debugging.
'set debug jit'
     Turn on or off debugging messages from JIT debug support.
'show debug jit'
     Displays the current state of GDB JIT debugging.
'set debug lin-lwp'
     Turn on or off debugging messages from the Linux LWP debug support.
'show debug lin-lwp'
     Show the current state of Linux LWP debugging messages.
'set debug linux-namespaces'
     Turn on or off debugging messages from the Linux namespaces debug
     support.
'show debug linux-namespaces'
     Show the current state of Linux namespaces debugging messages.
'set debug mach-o'
     Control display of debugging messages related to Mach-O symbols
     processing.  The default is off.
'show debug mach-o'
     Displays the current state of displaying debugging messages related
     to reading of COFF/PE exported symbols.
'set debug notification'
     Turn on or off debugging messages about remote async notification.
     The default is off.
'show debug notification'
     Displays the current state of remote async notification debugging
     messages.
'set debug observer'
     Turns on or off display of GDB observer debugging.  This includes
     info such as the notification of observable events.
'show debug observer'
     Displays the current state of observer debugging.
'set debug overload'
     Turns on or off display of GDB C++ overload debugging info.  This
     includes info such as ranking of functions, etc.  The default is
     off.
'show debug overload'
     Displays the current state of displaying GDB C++ overload debugging
     info.
'set debug parser'
     Turns on or off the display of expression parser debugging output.
     Internally, this sets the 'yydebug' variable in the expression
     parser.  *Note Tracing Your Parser: (bison)Tracing, for details.
     The default is off.
'show debug parser'
     Show the current state of expression parser debugging.
'set debug remote'
     Turns on or off display of reports on all packets sent back and
     forth across the serial line to the remote machine.  The info is
     printed on the GDB standard output stream.  The default is off.
'show debug remote'
     Displays the state of display of remote packets.

'set debug remote-packet-max-chars'
     Sets the maximum number of characters to display for each remote
     packet when 'set debug remote' is on.  This is useful to prevent
     GDB from displaying lengthy remote packets and polluting the
     console.

     The default value is '512', which means GDB will truncate each
     remote packet after 512 bytes.

     Setting this option to 'unlimited' will disable truncation and will
     output the full length of the remote packets.
'show debug remote-packet-max-chars'
     Displays the number of bytes to output for remote packet debugging.

'set debug separate-debug-file'
     Turns on or off display of debug output about separate debug file
     search.
'show debug separate-debug-file'
     Displays the state of separate debug file search debug output.

'set debug serial'
     Turns on or off display of GDB serial debugging info.  The default
     is off.
'show debug serial'
     Displays the current state of displaying GDB serial debugging info.
'set debug solib-frv'
     Turn on or off debugging messages for FR-V shared-library code.
'show debug solib-frv'
     Display the current state of FR-V shared-library code debugging
     messages.
'set debug symbol-lookup'
     Turns on or off display of debugging messages related to symbol
     lookup.  The default is 0 (off).  A value of 1 provides basic
     information.  A value greater than 1 provides more verbose
     information.
'show debug symbol-lookup'
     Show the current state of symbol lookup debugging messages.
'set debug symfile'
     Turns on or off display of debugging messages related to symbol
     file functions.  The default is off.  *Note Files::.
'show debug symfile'
     Show the current state of symbol file debugging messages.
'set debug symtab-create'
     Turns on or off display of debugging messages related to symbol
     table creation.  The default is 0 (off).  A value of 1 provides
     basic information.  A value greater than 1 provides more verbose
     information.
'show debug symtab-create'
     Show the current state of symbol table creation debugging.
'set debug target'
     Turns on or off display of GDB target debugging info.  This info
     includes what is going on at the target level of GDB, as it
     happens.  The default is 0.  Set it to 1 to track events, and to 2
     to also track the value of large memory transfers.
'show debug target'
     Displays the current state of displaying GDB target debugging info.
'set debug timestamp'
     Turns on or off display of timestamps with GDB debugging info.
     When enabled, seconds and microseconds are displayed before each
     debugging message.
'show debug timestamp'
     Displays the current state of displaying timestamps with GDB
     debugging info.
'set debug varobj'
     Turns on or off display of GDB variable object debugging info.  The
     default is off.
'show debug varobj'
     Displays the current state of displaying GDB variable object
     debugging info.
'set debug xml'
     Turn on or off debugging messages for built-in XML parsers.
'show debug xml'
     Displays the current state of XML debugging messages.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Other Misc Settings,  Prev: Debugging Output,  Up: Controlling GDB

