25.4 TUI-Specific Commands
==========================

The TUI has specific commands to control the text windows.  These
commands are always available, even when GDB is not in the TUI mode.
When GDB is in the standard mode, most of these commands will
automatically switch to the TUI mode.

   Note that if GDB's 'stdout' is not connected to a terminal, or GDB
has been started with the machine interface interpreter (*note The
GDB/MI Interface: GDB/MI.), most of these commands will fail with an
error, because it would not be possible or desirable to enable curses
window management.

'tui enable'
     Activate TUI mode.  The last active TUI window layout will be used
     if TUI mode has previously been used in the current debugging
     session, otherwise a default layout is used.

'tui disable'
     Disable TUI mode, returning to the console interpreter.

'info win'
     List and give the size of all displayed windows.

'tui new-layout NAME WINDOW WEIGHT [WINDOW WEIGHT...]'
     Create a new TUI layout.  The new layout will be named NAME, and
     can be accessed using the 'layout' command (see below).

     Each WINDOW parameter is either the name of a window to display, or
     a window description.  The windows will be displayed from top to
     bottom in the order listed.

     The names of the windows are the same as the ones given to the
     'focus' command (see below); additional, the 'status' window can be
     specified.  Note that, because it is of fixed height, the weight
     assigned to the status window is of no importance.  It is
     conventional to use '0' here.

     A window description looks a bit like an invocation of 'tui
     new-layout', and is of the form {['-horizontal']WINDOW WEIGHT
     [WINDOW WEIGHT...]}.

     This specifies a sub-layout.  If '-horizontal' is given, the
     windows in this description will be arranged side-by-side, rather
     than top-to-bottom.

     Each WEIGHT is an integer.  It is the weight of this window
     relative to all the other windows in the layout.  These numbers are
     used to calculate how much of the screen is given to each window.

     For example:

          (gdb) tui new-layout example src 1 regs 1 status 0 cmd 1

     Here, the new layout is called 'example'.  It shows the source and
     register windows, followed by the status window, and then finally
     the command window.  The non-status windows all have the same
     weight, so the terminal will be split into three roughly equal
     sections.

     Here is a more complex example, showing a horizontal layout:

          (gdb) tui new-layout example {-horizontal src 1 asm 1} 2 status 0 cmd 1

     This will result in side-by-side source and assembly windows; with
     the status and command window being beneath these, filling the
     entire width of the terminal.  Because they have weight 2, the
     source and assembly windows will be twice the height of the command
     window.

'layout NAME'
     Changes which TUI windows are displayed.  The NAME parameter
     controls which layout is shown.  It can be either one of the
     built-in layout names, or the name of a layout defined by the user
     using 'tui new-layout'.

     The built-in layouts are as follows:

     'next'
          Display the next layout.

     'prev'
          Display the previous layout.

     'src'
          Display the source and command windows.

     'asm'
          Display the assembly and command windows.

     'split'
          Display the source, assembly, and command windows.

     'regs'
          When in 'src' layout display the register, source, and command
          windows.  When in 'asm' or 'split' layout display the
          register, assembler, and command windows.

'focus NAME'
     Changes which TUI window is currently active for scrolling.  The
     NAME parameter can be any of the following:

     'next'
          Make the next window active for scrolling.

     'prev'
          Make the previous window active for scrolling.

     'src'
          Make the source window active for scrolling.

     'asm'
          Make the assembly window active for scrolling.

     'regs'
          Make the register window active for scrolling.

     'cmd'
          Make the command window active for scrolling.

'refresh'
     Refresh the screen.  This is similar to typing 'C-L'.

'tui reg GROUP'
     Changes the register group displayed in the tui register window to
     GROUP.  If the register window is not currently displayed this
     command will cause the register window to be displayed.  The list
     of register groups, as well as their order is target specific.  The
     following groups are available on most targets:
     'next'
          Repeatedly selecting this group will cause the display to
          cycle through all of the available register groups.

     'prev'
          Repeatedly selecting this group will cause the display to
          cycle through all of the available register groups in the
          reverse order to NEXT.

     'general'
          Display the general registers.
     'float'
          Display the floating point registers.
     'system'
          Display the system registers.
     'vector'
          Display the vector registers.
     'all'
          Display all registers.

'update'
     Update the source window and the current execution point.

'winheight NAME +COUNT'
'winheight NAME -COUNT'
     Change the height of the window NAME by COUNT lines.  Positive
     counts increase the height, while negative counts decrease it.  The
     NAME parameter can be one of 'src' (the source window), 'cmd' (the
     command window), 'asm' (the disassembly window), or 'regs' (the
     register display window).

File: gdb.info,  Node: TUI Configuration,  Prev: TUI Commands,  Up: TUI

