27.1 GDB/MI General Design
==========================

Interaction of a GDB/MI frontend with GDB involves three parts--commands
sent to GDB, responses to those commands and notifications.  Each
command results in exactly one response, indicating either successful
completion of the command, or an error.  For the commands that do not
resume the target, the response contains the requested information.  For
the commands that resume the target, the response only indicates whether
the target was successfully resumed.  Notifications is the mechanism for
reporting changes in the state of the target, or in GDB state, that
cannot conveniently be associated with a command and reported as part of
that command response.

   The important examples of notifications are:

   * Exec notifications.  These are used to report changes in target
     state--when a target is resumed, or stopped.  It would not be
     feasible to include this information in response of resuming
     commands, because one resume commands can result in multiple events
     in different threads.  Also, quite some time may pass before any
     event happens in the target, while a frontend needs to know whether
     the resuming command itself was successfully executed.

   * Console output, and status notifications.  Console output
     notifications are used to report output of CLI commands, as well as
     diagnostics for other commands.  Status notifications are used to
     report the progress of a long-running operation.  Naturally,
     including this information in command response would mean no output
     is produced until the command is finished, which is undesirable.

   * General notifications.  Commands may have various side effects on
     the GDB or target state beyond their official purpose.  For
     example, a command may change the selected thread.  Although such
     changes can be included in command response, using notification
     allows for more orthogonal frontend design.

   There's no guarantee that whenever an MI command reports an error,
GDB or the target are in any specific state, and especially, the state
is not reverted to the state before the MI command was processed.
Therefore, whenever an MI command results in an error, we recommend that
the frontend refreshes all the information shown in the user interface.

* Menu:

* Context management::
* Asynchronous and non-stop modes::
* Thread groups::

File: gdb.info,  Node: Context management,  Next: Asynchronous and non-stop modes,  Up: GDB/MI General Design

27.1.1 Context Management
-------------------------

27.1.1.1 Threads and Frames
...........................

In most cases when GDB accesses the target, this access is done in
context of a specific thread and frame (*note Frames::).  Often, even
when accessing global data, the target requires that a thread be
specified.  The CLI interface maintains the selected thread and frame,
and supplies them to target on each command.  This is convenient,
because a command line user would not want to specify that information
explicitly on each command, and because user interacts with GDB via a
single terminal, so no confusion is possible as to what thread and frame
are the current ones.

   In the case of MI, the concept of selected thread and frame is less
useful.  First, a frontend can easily remember this information itself.
Second, a graphical frontend can have more than one window, each one
used for debugging a different thread, and the frontend might want to
access additional threads for internal purposes.  This increases the
risk that by relying on implicitly selected thread, the frontend may be
operating on a wrong one.  Therefore, each MI command should explicitly
specify which thread and frame to operate on.  To make it possible, each
MI command accepts the '--thread' and '--frame' options, the value to
each is GDB global identifier for thread and frame to operate on.

   Usually, each top-level window in a frontend allows the user to
select a thread and a frame, and remembers the user selection for
further operations.  However, in some cases GDB may suggest that the
current thread or frame be changed.  For example, when stopping on a
breakpoint it is reasonable to switch to the thread where breakpoint is
hit.  For another example, if the user issues the CLI 'thread' or
'frame' commands via the frontend, it is desirable to change the
frontend's selection to the one specified by user.  GDB communicates the
suggestion to change current thread and frame using the
'=thread-selected' notification.

   Note that historically, MI shares the selected thread with CLI, so
frontends used the '-thread-select' to execute commands in the right
context.  However, getting this to work right is cumbersome.  The
simplest way is for frontend to emit '-thread-select' command before
every command.  This doubles the number of commands that need to be
sent.  The alternative approach is to suppress '-thread-select' if the
selected thread in GDB is supposed to be identical to the thread the
frontend wants to operate on.  However, getting this optimization right
can be tricky.  In particular, if the frontend sends several commands to
GDB, and one of the commands changes the selected thread, then the
behaviour of subsequent commands will change.  So, a frontend should
either wait for response from such problematic commands, or explicitly
add '-thread-select' for all subsequent commands.  No frontend is known
to do this exactly right, so it is suggested to just always pass the
'--thread' and '--frame' options.

27.1.1.2 Language
.................

The execution of several commands depends on which language is selected.
By default, the current language (*note show language::) is used.  But
for commands known to be language-sensitive, it is recommended to use
the '--language' option.  This option takes one argument, which is the
name of the language to use while executing the command.  For instance:

     -data-evaluate-expression --language c "sizeof (void*)"
     ^done,value="4"
     (gdb)

   The valid language names are the same names accepted by the 'set
language' command (*note Manually::), excluding 'auto', 'local' or
'unknown'.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Asynchronous and non-stop modes,  Next: Thread groups,  Prev: Context management,  Up: GDB/MI General Design

27.1.2 Asynchronous Command Execution and Non-Stop Mode
-------------------------------------------------------

On some targets, GDB is capable of processing MI commands even while the
target is running.  This is called "asynchronous command execution"
(*note Background Execution::).  The frontend may specify a preference
for asynchronous execution using the '-gdb-set mi-async 1' command,
which should be emitted before either running the executable or
attaching to the target.  After the frontend has started the executable
or attached to the target, it can find if asynchronous execution is
enabled using the '-list-target-features' command.

'-gdb-set mi-async on'
'-gdb-set mi-async off'
     Set whether MI is in asynchronous mode.

     When 'off', which is the default, MI execution commands (e.g.,
     '-exec-continue') are foreground commands, and GDB waits for the
     program to stop before processing further commands.

     When 'on', MI execution commands are background execution commands
     (e.g., '-exec-continue' becomes the equivalent of the 'c&' CLI
     command), and so GDB is capable of processing MI commands even
     while the target is running.

'-gdb-show mi-async'
     Show whether MI asynchronous mode is enabled.

   Note: In GDB version 7.7 and earlier, this option was called
'target-async' instead of 'mi-async', and it had the effect of both
putting MI in asynchronous mode and making CLI background commands
possible.  CLI background commands are now always possible "out of the
box" if the target supports them.  The old spelling is kept as a
deprecated alias for backwards compatibility.

   Even if GDB can accept a command while target is running, many
commands that access the target do not work when the target is running.
Therefore, asynchronous command execution is most useful when combined
with non-stop mode (*note Non-Stop Mode::).  Then, it is possible to
examine the state of one thread, while other threads are running.

   When a given thread is running, MI commands that try to access the
target in the context of that thread may not work, or may work only on
some targets.  In particular, commands that try to operate on thread's
stack will not work, on any target.  Commands that read memory, or
modify breakpoints, may work or not work, depending on the target.  Note
that even commands that operate on global state, such as 'print', 'set',
and breakpoint commands, still access the target in the context of a
specific thread, so frontend should try to find a stopped thread and
perform the operation on that thread (using the '--thread' option).

   Which commands will work in the context of a running thread is highly
target dependent.  However, the two commands '-exec-interrupt', to stop
a thread, and '-thread-info', to find the state of a thread, will always
work.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Thread groups,  Prev: Asynchronous and non-stop modes,  Up: GDB/MI General Design

27.1.3 Thread Groups
--------------------

GDB may be used to debug several processes at the same time.  On some
platforms, GDB may support debugging of several hardware systems, each
one having several cores with several different processes running on
each core.  This section describes the MI mechanism to support such
debugging scenarios.

   The key observation is that regardless of the structure of the
target, MI can have a global list of threads, because most commands that
accept the '--thread' option do not need to know what process that
thread belongs to.  Therefore, it is not necessary to introduce neither
additional '--process' option, nor an notion of the current process in
the MI interface.  The only strictly new feature that is required is the
ability to find how the threads are grouped into processes.

   To allow the user to discover such grouping, and to support arbitrary
hierarchy of machines/cores/processes, MI introduces the concept of a
"thread group".  Thread group is a collection of threads and other
thread groups.  A thread group always has a string identifier, a type,
and may have additional attributes specific to the type.  A new command,
'-list-thread-groups', returns the list of top-level thread groups,
which correspond to processes that GDB is debugging at the moment.  By
passing an identifier of a thread group to the '-list-thread-groups'
command, it is possible to obtain the members of specific thread group.

   To allow the user to easily discover processes, and other objects, he
wishes to debug, a concept of "available thread group" is introduced.
Available thread group is an thread group that GDB is not debugging, but
that can be attached to, using the '-target-attach' command.  The list
of available top-level thread groups can be obtained using
'-list-thread-groups --available'.  In general, the content of a thread
group may be only retrieved only after attaching to that thread group.

   Thread groups are related to inferiors (*note Inferiors Connections
and Programs::).  Each inferior corresponds to a thread group of a
special type 'process', and some additional operations are permitted on
such thread groups.

File: gdb.info,  Node: GDB/MI Command Syntax,  Next: GDB/MI Compatibility with CLI,  Prev: GDB/MI General Design,  Up: GDB/MI

