27.15 GDB/MI Variable Objects
=============================

Introduction to Variable Objects
--------------------------------

Variable objects are "object-oriented" MI interface for examining and
changing values of expressions.  Unlike some other MI interfaces that
work with expressions, variable objects are specifically designed for
simple and efficient presentation in the frontend.  A variable object is
identified by string name.  When a variable object is created, the
frontend specifies the expression for that variable object.  The
expression can be a simple variable, or it can be an arbitrary complex
expression, and can even involve CPU registers.  After creating a
variable object, the frontend can invoke other variable object
operations--for example to obtain or change the value of a variable
object, or to change display format.

   Variable objects have hierarchical tree structure.  Any variable
object that corresponds to a composite type, such as structure in C, has
a number of child variable objects, for example corresponding to each
element of a structure.  A child variable object can itself have
children, recursively.  Recursion ends when we reach leaf variable
objects, which always have built-in types.  Child variable objects are
created only by explicit request, so if a frontend is not interested in
the children of a particular variable object, no child will be created.

   For a leaf variable object it is possible to obtain its value as a
string, or set the value from a string.  String value can be also
obtained for a non-leaf variable object, but it's generally a string
that only indicates the type of the object, and does not list its
contents.  Assignment to a non-leaf variable object is not allowed.

   A frontend does not need to read the values of all variable objects
each time the program stops.  Instead, MI provides an update command
that lists all variable objects whose values has changed since the last
update operation.  This considerably reduces the amount of data that
must be transferred to the frontend.  As noted above, children variable
objects are created on demand, and only leaf variable objects have a
real value.  As result, gdb will read target memory only for leaf
variables that frontend has created.

   The automatic update is not always desirable.  For example, a
frontend might want to keep a value of some expression for future
reference, and never update it.  For another example, fetching memory is
relatively slow for embedded targets, so a frontend might want to
disable automatic update for the variables that are either not visible
on the screen, or "closed".  This is possible using so called "frozen
variable objects".  Such variable objects are never implicitly updated.

   Variable objects can be either "fixed" or "floating".  For the fixed
variable object, the expression is parsed when the variable object is
created, including associating identifiers to specific variables.  The
meaning of expression never changes.  For a floating variable object the
values of variables whose names appear in the expressions are
re-evaluated every time in the context of the current frame.  Consider
this example:

     void do_work(...)
     {
             struct work_state state;

             if (...)
                do_work(...);
     }

   If a fixed variable object for the 'state' variable is created in
this function, and we enter the recursive call, the variable object will
report the value of 'state' in the top-level 'do_work' invocation.  On
the other hand, a floating variable object will report the value of
'state' in the current frame.

   If an expression specified when creating a fixed variable object
refers to a local variable, the variable object becomes bound to the
thread and frame in which the variable object is created.  When such
variable object is updated, GDB makes sure that the thread/frame
combination the variable object is bound to still exists, and
re-evaluates the variable object in context of that thread/frame.

   The following is the complete set of GDB/MI operations defined to
access this functionality:

*Operation*                   *Description*
                              
'-enable-pretty-printing'     enable Python-based pretty-printing
'-var-create'                 create a variable object
'-var-delete'                 delete the variable object and/or its
                              children
'-var-set-format'             set the display format of this variable
'-var-show-format'            show the display format of this variable
'-var-info-num-children'      tells how many children this object has
'-var-list-children'          return a list of the object's children
'-var-info-type'              show the type of this variable object
'-var-info-expression'        print parent-relative expression that
                              this variable object represents
'-var-info-path-expression'   print full expression that this variable
                              object represents
'-var-show-attributes'        is this variable editable?  does it exist
                              here?
'-var-evaluate-expression'    get the value of this variable
'-var-assign'                 set the value of this variable
'-var-update'                 update the variable and its children
'-var-set-frozen'             set frozenness attribute
'-var-set-update-range'       set range of children to display on
                              update

   In the next subsection we describe each operation in detail and
suggest how it can be used.

Description and Use of Operations on Variable Objects
-----------------------------------------------------

The '-enable-pretty-printing' Command
-------------------------------------

     -enable-pretty-printing

   GDB allows Python-based visualizers to affect the output of the MI
variable object commands.  However, because there was no way to
implement this in a fully backward-compatible way, a front end must
request that this functionality be enabled.

   Once enabled, this feature cannot be disabled.

   Note that if Python support has not been compiled into GDB, this
command will still succeed (and do nothing).

   This feature is currently (as of GDB 7.0) experimental, and may work
differently in future versions of GDB.

The '-var-create' Command
-------------------------

Synopsis
........

      -var-create {NAME | "-"}
         {FRAME-ADDR | "*" | "@"} EXPRESSION

   This operation creates a variable object, which allows the monitoring
of a variable, the result of an expression, a memory cell or a CPU
register.

   The NAME parameter is the string by which the object can be
referenced.  It must be unique.  If '-' is specified, the varobj system
will generate a string "varNNNNNN" automatically.  It will be unique
provided that one does not specify NAME of that format.  The command
fails if a duplicate name is found.

   The frame under which the expression should be evaluated can be
specified by FRAME-ADDR.  A '*' indicates that the current frame should
be used.  A '@' indicates that a floating variable object must be
created.

   EXPRESSION is any expression valid on the current language set (must
not begin with a '*'), or one of the following:

   * '*ADDR', where ADDR is the address of a memory cell

   * '*ADDR-ADDR' -- a memory address range (TBD)

   * '$REGNAME' -- a CPU register name

   A varobj's contents may be provided by a Python-based pretty-printer.
In this case the varobj is known as a "dynamic varobj".  Dynamic varobjs
have slightly different semantics in some cases.  If the
'-enable-pretty-printing' command is not sent, then GDB will never
create a dynamic varobj.  This ensures backward compatibility for
existing clients.

Result
......

This operation returns attributes of the newly-created varobj.  These
are:

'name'
     The name of the varobj.

'numchild'
     The number of children of the varobj.  This number is not
     necessarily reliable for a dynamic varobj.  Instead, you must
     examine the 'has_more' attribute.

'value'
     The varobj's scalar value.  For a varobj whose type is some sort of
     aggregate (e.g., a 'struct'), or for a dynamic varobj, this value
     will not be interesting.

'type'
     The varobj's type.  This is a string representation of the type, as
     would be printed by the GDB CLI. If 'print object' (*note set print
     object: Print Settings.) is set to 'on', the _actual_ (derived)
     type of the object is shown rather than the _declared_ one.

'thread-id'
     If a variable object is bound to a specific thread, then this is
     the thread's global identifier.

'has_more'
     For a dynamic varobj, this indicates whether there appear to be any
     children available.  For a non-dynamic varobj, this will be 0.

'dynamic'
     This attribute will be present and have the value '1' if the varobj
     is a dynamic varobj.  If the varobj is not a dynamic varobj, then
     this attribute will not be present.

'displayhint'
     A dynamic varobj can supply a display hint to the front end.  The
     value comes directly from the Python pretty-printer object's
     'display_hint' method.  *Note Pretty Printing API::.

   Typical output will look like this:

      name="NAME",numchild="N",type="TYPE",thread-id="M",
       has_more="HAS_MORE"

The '-var-delete' Command
-------------------------

Synopsis
........

      -var-delete [ -c ] NAME

   Deletes a previously created variable object and all of its children.
With the '-c' option, just deletes the children.

   Returns an error if the object NAME is not found.

The '-var-set-format' Command
-----------------------------

Synopsis
........

      -var-set-format NAME FORMAT-SPEC

   Sets the output format for the value of the object NAME to be
FORMAT-SPEC.

   The syntax for the FORMAT-SPEC is as follows:

      FORMAT-SPEC ==>
      {binary | decimal | hexadecimal | octal | natural | zero-hexadecimal}

   The natural format is the default format choosen automatically based
on the variable type (like decimal for an 'int', hex for pointers,
etc.).

   The zero-hexadecimal format has a representation similar to
hexadecimal but with padding zeroes to the left of the value.  For
example, a 32-bit hexadecimal value of 0x1234 would be represented as
0x00001234 in the zero-hexadecimal format.

   For a variable with children, the format is set only on the variable
itself, and the children are not affected.

The '-var-show-format' Command
------------------------------

Synopsis
........

      -var-show-format NAME

   Returns the format used to display the value of the object NAME.

      FORMAT ==>
      FORMAT-SPEC

The '-var-info-num-children' Command
------------------------------------

Synopsis
........

      -var-info-num-children NAME

   Returns the number of children of a variable object NAME:

      numchild=N

   Note that this number is not completely reliable for a dynamic
varobj.  It will return the current number of children, but more
children may be available.

The '-var-list-children' Command
--------------------------------

Synopsis
........

      -var-list-children [PRINT-VALUES] NAME [FROM TO]

   Return a list of the children of the specified variable object and
create variable objects for them, if they do not already exist.  With a
single argument or if PRINT-VALUES has a value of 0 or '--no-values',
print only the names of the variables; if PRINT-VALUES is 1 or
'--all-values', also print their values; and if it is 2 or
'--simple-values' print the name and value for simple data types and
just the name for arrays, structures and unions.

   FROM and TO, if specified, indicate the range of children to report.
If FROM or TO is less than zero, the range is reset and all children
will be reported.  Otherwise, children starting at FROM (zero-based) and
up to and excluding TO will be reported.

   If a child range is requested, it will only affect the current call
to '-var-list-children', but not future calls to '-var-update'.  For
this, you must instead use '-var-set-update-range'.  The intent of this
approach is to enable a front end to implement any update approach it
likes; for example, scrolling a view may cause the front end to request
more children with '-var-list-children', and then the front end could
call '-var-set-update-range' with a different range to ensure that
future updates are restricted to just the visible items.

   For each child the following results are returned:

NAME
     Name of the variable object created for this child.

EXP
     The expression to be shown to the user by the front end to
     designate this child.  For example this may be the name of a
     structure member.

     For a dynamic varobj, this value cannot be used to form an
     expression.  There is no way to do this at all with a dynamic
     varobj.

     For C/C++ structures there are several pseudo children returned to
     designate access qualifiers.  For these pseudo children EXP is
     'public', 'private', or 'protected'.  In this case the type and
     value are not present.

     A dynamic varobj will not report the access qualifying
     pseudo-children, regardless of the language.  This information is
     not available at all with a dynamic varobj.

NUMCHILD
     Number of children this child has.  For a dynamic varobj, this will
     be 0.

TYPE
     The type of the child.  If 'print object' (*note set print object:
     Print Settings.) is set to 'on', the _actual_ (derived) type of the
     object is shown rather than the _declared_ one.

VALUE
     If values were requested, this is the value.

THREAD-ID
     If this variable object is associated with a thread, this is the
     thread's global thread id.  Otherwise this result is not present.

FROZEN
     If the variable object is frozen, this variable will be present
     with a value of 1.

DISPLAYHINT
     A dynamic varobj can supply a display hint to the front end.  The
     value comes directly from the Python pretty-printer object's
     'display_hint' method.  *Note Pretty Printing API::.

DYNAMIC
     This attribute will be present and have the value '1' if the varobj
     is a dynamic varobj.  If the varobj is not a dynamic varobj, then
     this attribute will not be present.

   The result may have its own attributes:

'displayhint'
     A dynamic varobj can supply a display hint to the front end.  The
     value comes directly from the Python pretty-printer object's
     'display_hint' method.  *Note Pretty Printing API::.

'has_more'
     This is an integer attribute which is nonzero if there are children
     remaining after the end of the selected range.

Example
.......

     (gdb)
      -var-list-children n
      ^done,numchild=N,children=[child={name=NAME,exp=EXP,
      numchild=N,type=TYPE},(repeats N times)]
     (gdb)
      -var-list-children --all-values n
      ^done,numchild=N,children=[child={name=NAME,exp=EXP,
      numchild=N,value=VALUE,type=TYPE},(repeats N times)]

The '-var-info-type' Command
----------------------------

Synopsis
........

      -var-info-type NAME

   Returns the type of the specified variable NAME.  The type is
returned as a string in the same format as it is output by the GDB CLI:

      type=TYPENAME

The '-var-info-expression' Command
----------------------------------

Synopsis
........

      -var-info-expression NAME

   Returns a string that is suitable for presenting this variable object
in user interface.  The string is generally not valid expression in the
current language, and cannot be evaluated.

   For example, if 'a' is an array, and variable object 'A' was created
for 'a', then we'll get this output:

     (gdb) -var-info-expression A.1
     ^done,lang="C",exp="1"

Here, the value of 'lang' is the language name, which can be found in
*note Supported Languages::.

   Note that the output of the '-var-list-children' command also
includes those expressions, so the '-var-info-expression' command is of
limited use.

The '-var-info-path-expression' Command
---------------------------------------

Synopsis
........

      -var-info-path-expression NAME

   Returns an expression that can be evaluated in the current context
and will yield the same value that a variable object has.  Compare this
with the '-var-info-expression' command, which result can be used only
for UI presentation.  Typical use of the '-var-info-path-expression'
command is creating a watchpoint from a variable object.

   This command is currently not valid for children of a dynamic varobj,
and will give an error when invoked on one.

   For example, suppose 'C' is a C++ class, derived from class 'Base',
and that the 'Base' class has a member called 'm_size'.  Assume a
variable 'c' is has the type of 'C' and a variable object 'C' was
created for variable 'c'.  Then, we'll get this output:
     (gdb) -var-info-path-expression C.Base.public.m_size
     ^done,path_expr=((Base)c).m_size)

The '-var-show-attributes' Command
----------------------------------

Synopsis
........

      -var-show-attributes NAME

   List attributes of the specified variable object NAME:

      status=ATTR [ ( ,ATTR )* ]

where ATTR is '{ { editable | noneditable } | TBD }'.

The '-var-evaluate-expression' Command
--------------------------------------

Synopsis
........

      -var-evaluate-expression [-f FORMAT-SPEC] NAME

   Evaluates the expression that is represented by the specified
variable object and returns its value as a string.  The format of the
string can be specified with the '-f' option.  The possible values of
this option are the same as for '-var-set-format' (*note
-var-set-format::).  If the '-f' option is not specified, the current
display format will be used.  The current display format can be changed
using the '-var-set-format' command.

      value=VALUE

   Note that one must invoke '-var-list-children' for a variable before
the value of a child variable can be evaluated.

The '-var-assign' Command
-------------------------

Synopsis
........

      -var-assign NAME EXPRESSION

   Assigns the value of EXPRESSION to the variable object specified by
NAME.  The object must be 'editable'.  If the variable's value is
altered by the assign, the variable will show up in any subsequent
'-var-update' list.

Example
.......

     (gdb)
     -var-assign var1 3
     ^done,value="3"
     (gdb)
     -var-update *
     ^done,changelist=[{name="var1",in_scope="true",type_changed="false"}]
     (gdb)

The '-var-update' Command
-------------------------

Synopsis
........

      -var-update [PRINT-VALUES] {NAME | "*"}

   Reevaluate the expressions corresponding to the variable object NAME
and all its direct and indirect children, and return the list of
variable objects whose values have changed; NAME must be a root variable
object.  Here, "changed" means that the result of
'-var-evaluate-expression' before and after the '-var-update' is
different.  If '*' is used as the variable object names, all existing
variable objects are updated, except for frozen ones (*note
-var-set-frozen::).  The option PRINT-VALUES determines whether both
names and values, or just names are printed.  The possible values of
this option are the same as for '-var-list-children' (*note
-var-list-children::).  It is recommended to use the '--all-values'
option, to reduce the number of MI commands needed on each program stop.

   With the '*' parameter, if a variable object is bound to a currently
running thread, it will not be updated, without any diagnostic.

   If '-var-set-update-range' was previously used on a varobj, then only
the selected range of children will be reported.

   '-var-update' reports all the changed varobjs in a tuple named
'changelist'.

   Each item in the change list is itself a tuple holding:

'name'
     The name of the varobj.

'value'
     If values were requested for this update, then this field will be
     present and will hold the value of the varobj.

'in_scope'
     This field is a string which may take one of three values:

     '"true"'
          The variable object's current value is valid.

     '"false"'
          The variable object does not currently hold a valid value but
          it may hold one in the future if its associated expression
          comes back into scope.

     '"invalid"'
          The variable object no longer holds a valid value.  This can
          occur when the executable file being debugged has changed,
          either through recompilation or by using the GDB 'file'
          command.  The front end should normally choose to delete these
          variable objects.

     In the future new values may be added to this list so the front
     should be prepared for this possibility.  *Note GDB/MI Development
     and Front Ends: GDB/MI Development and Front Ends.

'type_changed'
     This is only present if the varobj is still valid.  If the type
     changed, then this will be the string 'true'; otherwise it will be
     'false'.

     When a varobj's type changes, its children are also likely to have
     become incorrect.  Therefore, the varobj's children are
     automatically deleted when this attribute is 'true'.  Also, the
     varobj's update range, when set using the '-var-set-update-range'
     command, is unset.

'new_type'
     If the varobj's type changed, then this field will be present and
     will hold the new type.

'new_num_children'
     For a dynamic varobj, if the number of children changed, or if the
     type changed, this will be the new number of children.

     The 'numchild' field in other varobj responses is generally not
     valid for a dynamic varobj - it will show the number of children
     that GDB knows about, but because dynamic varobjs lazily
     instantiate their children, this will not reflect the number of
     children which may be available.

     The 'new_num_children' attribute only reports changes to the number
     of children known by GDB.  This is the only way to detect whether
     an update has removed children (which necessarily can only happen
     at the end of the update range).

'displayhint'
     The display hint, if any.

'has_more'
     This is an integer value, which will be 1 if there are more
     children available outside the varobj's update range.

'dynamic'
     This attribute will be present and have the value '1' if the varobj
     is a dynamic varobj.  If the varobj is not a dynamic varobj, then
     this attribute will not be present.

'new_children'
     If new children were added to a dynamic varobj within the selected
     update range (as set by '-var-set-update-range'), then they will be
     listed in this attribute.

Example
.......

     (gdb)
     -var-assign var1 3
     ^done,value="3"
     (gdb)
     -var-update --all-values var1
     ^done,changelist=[{name="var1",value="3",in_scope="true",
     type_changed="false"}]
     (gdb)

The '-var-set-frozen' Command
-----------------------------

Synopsis
........

      -var-set-frozen NAME FLAG

   Set the frozenness flag on the variable object NAME.  The FLAG
parameter should be either '1' to make the variable frozen or '0' to
make it unfrozen.  If a variable object is frozen, then neither itself,
nor any of its children, are implicitly updated by '-var-update' of a
parent variable or by '-var-update *'.  Only '-var-update' of the
variable itself will update its value and values of its children.  After
a variable object is unfrozen, it is implicitly updated by all
subsequent '-var-update' operations.  Unfreezing a variable does not
update it, only subsequent '-var-update' does.

Example
.......

     (gdb)
     -var-set-frozen V 1
     ^done
     (gdb)

The '-var-set-update-range' command
-----------------------------------

Synopsis
........

      -var-set-update-range NAME FROM TO

   Set the range of children to be returned by future invocations of
'-var-update'.

   FROM and TO indicate the range of children to report.  If FROM or TO
is less than zero, the range is reset and all children will be reported.
Otherwise, children starting at FROM (zero-based) and up to and
excluding TO will be reported.

Example
.......

     (gdb)
     -var-set-update-range V 1 2
     ^done

The '-var-set-visualizer' Command
---------------------------------

Synopsis
........

      -var-set-visualizer NAME VISUALIZER

   Set a visualizer for the variable object NAME.

   VISUALIZER is the visualizer to use.  The special value 'None' means
to disable any visualizer in use.

   If not 'None', VISUALIZER must be a Python expression.  This
expression must evaluate to a callable object which accepts a single
argument.  GDB will call this object with the value of the varobj NAME
as an argument (this is done so that the same Python pretty-printing
code can be used for both the CLI and MI). When called, this object must
return an object which conforms to the pretty-printing interface (*note
Pretty Printing API::).

   The pre-defined function 'gdb.default_visualizer' may be used to
select a visualizer by following the built-in process (*note Selecting
Pretty-Printers::).  This is done automatically when a varobj is
created, and so ordinarily is not needed.

   This feature is only available if Python support is enabled.  The MI
command '-list-features' (*note GDB/MI Support Commands::) can be used
to check this.

Example
.......

Resetting the visualizer:

     (gdb)
     -var-set-visualizer V None
     ^done

   Reselecting the default (type-based) visualizer:

     (gdb)
     -var-set-visualizer V gdb.default_visualizer
     ^done

   Suppose 'SomeClass' is a visualizer class.  A lambda expression can
be used to instantiate this class for a varobj:

     (gdb)
     -var-set-visualizer V "lambda val: SomeClass()"
     ^done

File: gdb.info,  Node: GDB/MI Data Manipulation,  Next: GDB/MI Tracepoint Commands,  Prev: GDB/MI Variable Objects,  Up: GDB/MI

