Appendix D Maintenance Commands
*******************************

In addition to commands intended for GDB users, GDB includes a number of
commands intended for GDB developers, that are not documented elsewhere
in this manual.  These commands are provided here for reference.  (For
commands that turn on debugging messages, see *note Debugging Output::.)

'maint agent [-at LOCATION,] EXPRESSION'
'maint agent-eval [-at LOCATION,] EXPRESSION'
     Translate the given EXPRESSION into remote agent bytecodes.  This
     command is useful for debugging the Agent Expression mechanism
     (*note Agent Expressions::).  The 'agent' version produces an
     expression useful for data collection, such as by tracepoints,
     while 'maint agent-eval' produces an expression that evaluates
     directly to a result.  For instance, a collection expression for
     'globa + globb' will include bytecodes to record four bytes of
     memory at each of the addresses of 'globa' and 'globb', while
     discarding the result of the addition, while an evaluation
     expression will do the addition and return the sum.  If '-at' is
     given, generate remote agent bytecode for LOCATION.  If not,
     generate remote agent bytecode for current frame PC address.

'maint agent-printf FORMAT,EXPR,...'
     Translate the given format string and list of argument expressions
     into remote agent bytecodes and display them as a disassembled
     list.  This command is useful for debugging the agent version of
     dynamic printf (*note Dynamic printf::).

'maint info breakpoints'
     Using the same format as 'info breakpoints', display both the
     breakpoints you've set explicitly, and those GDB is using for
     internal purposes.  Internal breakpoints are shown with negative
     breakpoint numbers.  The type column identifies what kind of
     breakpoint is shown:

     'breakpoint'
          Normal, explicitly set breakpoint.

     'watchpoint'
          Normal, explicitly set watchpoint.

     'longjmp'
          Internal breakpoint, used to handle correctly stepping through
          'longjmp' calls.

     'longjmp resume'
          Internal breakpoint at the target of a 'longjmp'.

     'until'
          Temporary internal breakpoint used by the GDB 'until' command.

     'finish'
          Temporary internal breakpoint used by the GDB 'finish'
          command.

     'shlib events'
          Shared library events.

'maint info btrace'
     Pint information about raw branch tracing data.

'maint btrace packet-history'
     Print the raw branch trace packets that are used to compute the
     execution history for the 'record btrace' command.  Both the
     information and the format in which it is printed depend on the
     btrace recording format.

     'bts'
          For the BTS recording format, print a list of blocks of
          sequential code.  For each block, the following information is
          printed:

          Block number
               Newer blocks have higher numbers.  The oldest block has
               number zero.
          Lowest 'PC'
          Highest 'PC'

     'pt'
          For the Intel Processor Trace recording format, print a list
          of Intel Processor Trace packets.  For each packet, the
          following information is printed:

          Packet number
               Newer packets have higher numbers.  The oldest packet has
               number zero.
          Trace offset
               The packet's offset in the trace stream.
          Packet opcode and payload

'maint btrace clear-packet-history'
     Discards the cached packet history printed by the 'maint btrace
     packet-history' command.  The history will be computed again when
     needed.

'maint btrace clear'
     Discard the branch trace data.  The data will be fetched anew and
     the branch trace will be recomputed when needed.

     This implicitly truncates the branch trace to a single branch trace
     buffer.  When updating branch trace incrementally, the branch trace
     available to GDB may be bigger than a single branch trace buffer.

'maint set btrace pt skip-pad'
'maint show btrace pt skip-pad'
     Control whether GDB will skip PAD packets when computing the packet
     history.

'set displaced-stepping'
'show displaced-stepping'
     Control whether or not GDB will do "displaced stepping" if the
     target supports it.  Displaced stepping is a way to single-step
     over breakpoints without removing them from the inferior, by
     executing an out-of-line copy of the instruction that was
     originally at the breakpoint location.  It is also known as
     out-of-line single-stepping.

     'set displaced-stepping on'
          If the target architecture supports it, GDB will use displaced
          stepping to step over breakpoints.

     'set displaced-stepping off'
          GDB will not use displaced stepping to step over breakpoints,
          even if such is supported by the target architecture.

     'set displaced-stepping auto'
          This is the default mode.  GDB will use displaced stepping
          only if non-stop mode is active (*note Non-Stop Mode::) and
          the target architecture supports displaced stepping.

'maint check-psymtabs'
     Check the consistency of currently expanded psymtabs versus
     symtabs.  Use this to check, for example, whether a symbol is in
     one but not the other.

'maint check-symtabs'
     Check the consistency of currently expanded symtabs.

'maint expand-symtabs [REGEXP]'
     Expand symbol tables.  If REGEXP is specified, only expand symbol
     tables for file names matching REGEXP.

'maint set catch-demangler-crashes [on|off]'
'maint show catch-demangler-crashes'
     Control whether GDB should attempt to catch crashes in the symbol
     name demangler.  The default is to attempt to catch crashes.  If
     enabled, the first time a crash is caught, a core file is created,
     the offending symbol is displayed and the user is presented with
     the option to terminate the current session.

'maint cplus first_component NAME'
     Print the first C++ class/namespace component of NAME.

'maint cplus namespace'
     Print the list of possible C++ namespaces.

'maint deprecate COMMAND [REPLACEMENT]'
'maint undeprecate COMMAND'
     Deprecate or undeprecate the named COMMAND.  Deprecated commands
     cause GDB to issue a warning when you use them.  The optional
     argument REPLACEMENT says which newer command should be used in
     favor of the deprecated one; if it is given, GDB will mention the
     replacement as part of the warning.

'maint dump-me'
     Cause a fatal signal in the debugger and force it to dump its core.
     This is supported only on systems which support aborting a program
     with the 'SIGQUIT' signal.

'maint internal-error [MESSAGE-TEXT]'
'maint internal-warning [MESSAGE-TEXT]'
'maint demangler-warning [MESSAGE-TEXT]'

     Cause GDB to call the internal function 'internal_error',
     'internal_warning' or 'demangler_warning' and hence behave as
     though an internal problem has been detected.  In addition to
     reporting the internal problem, these functions give the user the
     opportunity to either quit GDB or (for 'internal_error' and
     'internal_warning') create a core file of the current GDB session.

     These commands take an optional parameter MESSAGE-TEXT that is used
     as the text of the error or warning message.

     Here's an example of using 'internal-error':

          (gdb) maint internal-error testing, 1, 2
          .../maint.c:121: internal-error: testing, 1, 2
          A problem internal to GDB has been detected.  Further
          debugging may prove unreliable.
          Quit this debugging session? (y or n) n
          Create a core file? (y or n) n
          (gdb)

'maint set internal-error ACTION [ask|yes|no]'
'maint show internal-error ACTION'
'maint set internal-warning ACTION [ask|yes|no]'
'maint show internal-warning ACTION'
'maint set demangler-warning ACTION [ask|yes|no]'
'maint show demangler-warning ACTION'
     When GDB reports an internal problem (error or warning) it gives
     the user the opportunity to both quit GDB and create a core file of
     the current GDB session.  These commands let you override the
     default behaviour for each particular ACTION, described in the
     table below.

     'quit'
          You can specify that GDB should always (yes) or never (no)
          quit.  The default is to ask the user what to do.

     'corefile'
          You can specify that GDB should always (yes) or never (no)
          create a core file.  The default is to ask the user what to
          do.  Note that there is no 'corefile' option for
          'demangler-warning': demangler warnings always create a core
          file and this cannot be disabled.

'maint packet TEXT'
     If GDB is talking to an inferior via the serial protocol, then this
     command sends the string TEXT to the inferior, and displays the
     response packet.  GDB supplies the initial '$' character, the
     terminating '#' character, and the checksum.

'maint print architecture [FILE]'
     Print the entire architecture configuration.  The optional argument
     FILE names the file where the output goes.

'maint print c-tdesc'
     Print the target description (*note Target Descriptions::) as a C
     source file.  By default, the target description is for the current
     target, but if the optional argument FILE is provided, that file is
     used to produce the description.  The FILE should be an XML
     document, of the form described in *note Target Description
     Format::.  The created source file is built into GDB when GDB is
     built again.  This command is used by developers after they add or
     modify XML target descriptions.

'maint print xml-tdesc [FILE]'
     Print the target description (*note Target Descriptions::) as an
     XML file.  By default print the target description for the current
     target, but if the optional argument FILE is provided, then that
     file is read in by GDB and then used to produce the description.
     The FILE should be an XML document, of the form described in *note
     Target Description Format::.

'maint check xml-descriptions DIR'
     Check that the target descriptions dynamically created by GDB equal
     the descriptions created from XML files found in DIR.

'maint check libthread-db'
     Run integrity checks on the current inferior's thread debugging
     library.  This exercises all 'libthread_db' functionality used by
     GDB on GNU/Linux systems, and by extension also exercises the
     'proc_service' functions provided by GDB that 'libthread_db' uses.
     Note that parts of the test may be skipped on some platforms when
     debugging core files.

'maint print core-file-backed-mappings'
     Print the file-backed mappings which were loaded from a core file
     note.  This output represents state internal to GDB and should be
     similar to the mappings displayed by the 'info proc mappings'
     command.

'maint print dummy-frames'
     Prints the contents of GDB's internal dummy-frame stack.

          (gdb) b add
          ...
          (gdb) print add(2,3)
          Breakpoint 2, add (a=2, b=3) at ...
          58	  return (a + b);
          The program being debugged stopped while in a function called from GDB.
          ...
          (gdb) maint print dummy-frames
          0xa8206d8: id={stack=0xbfffe734,code=0xbfffe73f,!special}, ptid=process 9353
          (gdb)

     Takes an optional file parameter.

'maint print registers [FILE]'
'maint print raw-registers [FILE]'
'maint print cooked-registers [FILE]'
'maint print register-groups [FILE]'
'maint print remote-registers [FILE]'
     Print GDB's internal register data structures.

     The command 'maint print raw-registers' includes the contents of
     the raw register cache; the command 'maint print cooked-registers'
     includes the (cooked) value of all registers, including registers
     which aren't available on the target nor visible to user; the
     command 'maint print register-groups' includes the groups that each
     register is a member of; and the command 'maint print
     remote-registers' includes the remote target's register numbers and
     offsets in the 'G' packets.

     These commands take an optional parameter, a file name to which to
     write the information.

'maint print reggroups [FILE]'
     Print GDB's internal register group data structures.  The optional
     argument FILE tells to what file to write the information.

     The register groups info looks like this:

          (gdb) maint print reggroups
           Group      Type
           general    user
           float      user
           all        user
           vector     user
           system     user
           save       internal
           restore    internal

'flushregs'
     This command forces GDB to flush its internal register cache.

'maint print objfiles [REGEXP]'
     Print a dump of all known object files.  If REGEXP is specified,
     only print object files whose names match REGEXP.  For each object
     file, this command prints its name, address in memory, and all of
     its psymtabs and symtabs.

'maint print user-registers'
     List all currently available "user registers".  User registers
     typically provide alternate names for actual hardware registers.
     They include the four "standard" registers '$fp', '$pc', '$sp', and
     '$ps'.  *Note standard registers::.  User registers can be used in
     expressions in the same way as the canonical register names, but
     only the latter are listed by the 'info registers' and 'maint print
     registers' commands.

'maint print section-scripts [REGEXP]'
     Print a dump of scripts specified in the '.debug_gdb_section'
     section.  If REGEXP is specified, only print scripts loaded by
     object files matching REGEXP.  For each script, this command prints
     its name as specified in the objfile, and the full path if known.
     *Note dotdebug_gdb_scripts section::.

'maint print statistics'
     This command prints, for each object file in the program, various
     data about that object file followed by the byte cache ("bcache")
     statistics for the object file.  The objfile data includes the
     number of minimal, partial, full, and stabs symbols, the number of
     types defined by the objfile, the number of as yet unexpanded psym
     tables, the number of line tables and string tables, and the amount
     of memory used by the various tables.  The bcache statistics
     include the counts, sizes, and counts of duplicates of all and
     unique objects, max, average, and median entry size, total memory
     used and its overhead and savings, and various measures of the hash
     table size and chain lengths.

'maint print target-stack'
     A "target" is an interface between the debugger and a particular
     kind of file or process.  Targets can be stacked in "strata", so
     that more than one target can potentially respond to a request.  In
     particular, memory accesses will walk down the stack of targets
     until they find a target that is interested in handling that
     particular address.

     This command prints a short description of each layer that was
     pushed on the "target stack", starting from the top layer down to
     the bottom one.

'maint print type EXPR'
     Print the type chain for a type specified by EXPR.  The argument
     can be either a type name or a symbol.  If it is a symbol, the type
     of that symbol is described.  The type chain produced by this
     command is a recursive definition of the data type as stored in
     GDB's data structures, including its flags and contained types.

'maint selftest [FILTER]'
     Run any self tests that were compiled in to GDB.  This will print a
     message showing how many tests were run, and how many failed.  If a
     FILTER is passed, only the tests with FILTER in their name will by
     ran.

'maint info selftests'
     List the selftests compiled in to GDB.

'maint set dwarf always-disassemble'
'maint show dwarf always-disassemble'
     Control the behavior of 'info address' when using DWARF debugging
     information.

     The default is 'off', which means that GDB should try to describe a
     variable's location in an easily readable format.  When 'on', GDB
     will instead display the DWARF location expression in an
     assembly-like format.  Note that some locations are too complex for
     GDB to describe simply; in this case you will always see the
     disassembly form.

     Here is an example of the resulting disassembly:

          (gdb) info addr argc
          Symbol "argc" is a complex DWARF expression:
               1: DW_OP_fbreg 0

     For more information on these expressions, see the DWARF standard
     (http://www.dwarfstd.org/).

'maint set dwarf max-cache-age'
'maint show dwarf max-cache-age'
     Control the DWARF compilation unit cache.

     In object files with inter-compilation-unit references, such as
     those produced by the GCC option '-feliminate-dwarf2-dups', the
     DWARF reader needs to frequently refer to previously read
     compilation units.  This setting controls how long a compilation
     unit will remain in the cache if it is not referenced.  A higher
     limit means that cached compilation units will be stored in memory
     longer, and more total memory will be used.  Setting it to zero
     disables caching, which will slow down GDB startup, but reduce
     memory consumption.

'maint set dwarf unwinders'
'maint show dwarf unwinders'
     Control use of the DWARF frame unwinders.

     Many targets that support DWARF debugging use GDB's DWARF frame
     unwinders to build the backtrace.  Many of these targets will also
     have a second mechanism for building the backtrace for use in cases
     where DWARF information is not available, this second mechanism is
     often an analysis of a function's prologue.

     In order to extend testing coverage of the second level stack
     unwinding mechanisms it is helpful to be able to disable the DWARF
     stack unwinders, this can be done with this switch.

     In normal use of GDB disabling the DWARF unwinders is not
     advisable, there are cases that are better handled through DWARF
     than prologue analysis, and the debug experience is likely to be
     better with the DWARF frame unwinders enabled.

     If DWARF frame unwinders are not supported for a particular target
     architecture, then enabling this flag does not cause them to be
     used.

'maint set worker-threads'
'maint show worker-threads'
     Control the number of worker threads that may be used by GDB.  On
     capable hosts, GDB may use multiple threads to speed up certain
     CPU-intensive operations, such as demangling symbol names.  While
     the number of threads used by GDB may vary, this command can be
     used to set an upper bound on this number.  The default is
     'unlimited', which lets GDB choose a reasonable number.  Note that
     this only controls worker threads started by GDB itself; libraries
     used by GDB may start threads of their own.

'maint set profile'
'maint show profile'
     Control profiling of GDB.

     Profiling will be disabled until you use the 'maint set profile'
     command to enable it.  When you enable profiling, the system will
     begin collecting timing and execution count data; when you disable
     profiling or exit GDB, the results will be written to a log file.
     Remember that if you use profiling, GDB will overwrite the
     profiling log file (often called 'gmon.out').  If you have a record
     of important profiling data in a 'gmon.out' file, be sure to move
     it to a safe location.

     Configuring with '--enable-profiling' arranges for GDB to be
     compiled with the '-pg' compiler option.

'maint set show-debug-regs'
'maint show show-debug-regs'
     Control whether to show variables that mirror the hardware debug
     registers.  Use 'on' to enable, 'off' to disable.  If enabled, the
     debug registers values are shown when GDB inserts or removes a
     hardware breakpoint or watchpoint, and when the inferior triggers a
     hardware-assisted breakpoint or watchpoint.

'maint set show-all-tib'
'maint show show-all-tib'
     Control whether to show all non zero areas within a 1k block
     starting at thread local base, when using the 'info w32
     thread-information-block' command.

'maint set target-async'
'maint show target-async'
     This controls whether GDB targets operate in synchronous or
     asynchronous mode (*note Background Execution::).  Normally the
     default is asynchronous, if it is available; but this can be
     changed to more easily debug problems occurring only in synchronous
     mode.

'maint set target-non-stop'
'maint show target-non-stop'

     This controls whether GDB targets always operate in non-stop mode
     even if 'set non-stop' is 'off' (*note Non-Stop Mode::).  The
     default is 'auto', meaning non-stop mode is enabled if supported by
     the target.

     'maint set target-non-stop auto'
          This is the default mode.  GDB controls the target in non-stop
          mode if the target supports it.

     'maint set target-non-stop on'
          GDB controls the target in non-stop mode even if the target
          does not indicate support.

     'maint set target-non-stop off'
          GDB does not control the target in non-stop mode even if the
          target supports it.

'maint set tui-resize-message'
'maint show tui-resize-message'
     Control whether GDB displays a message each time the terminal is
     resized when in TUI mode.  The default is 'off', which means that
     GDB is silent during resizes.  When 'on', GDB will display a
     message after a resize is completed; the message will include a
     number indicating how many times the terminal has been resized.
     This setting is intended for use by the test suite, where it would
     otherwise be difficult to determine when a resize and refresh has
     been completed.

'maint set per-command'
'maint show per-command'

     GDB can display the resources used by each command.  This is useful
     in debugging performance problems.

     'maint set per-command space [on|off]'
     'maint show per-command space'
          Enable or disable the printing of the memory used by GDB for
          each command.  If enabled, GDB will display how much memory
          each command took, following the command's own output.  This
          can also be requested by invoking GDB with the '--statistics'
          command-line switch (*note Mode Options::).

     'maint set per-command time [on|off]'
     'maint show per-command time'
          Enable or disable the printing of the execution time of GDB
          for each command.  If enabled, GDB will display how much time
          it took to execute each command, following the command's own
          output.  Both CPU time and wallclock time are printed.
          Printing both is useful when trying to determine whether the
          cost is CPU or, e.g., disk/network latency.  Note that the CPU
          time printed is for GDB only, it does not include the
          execution time of the inferior because there's no mechanism
          currently to compute how much time was spent by GDB and how
          much time was spent by the program been debugged.  This can
          also be requested by invoking GDB with the '--statistics'
          command-line switch (*note Mode Options::).

     'maint set per-command symtab [on|off]'
     'maint show per-command symtab'
          Enable or disable the printing of basic symbol table
          statistics for each command.  If enabled, GDB will display the
          following information:

            a. number of symbol tables
            b. number of primary symbol tables
            c. number of blocks in the blockvector

'maint set check-libthread-db [on|off]'
'maint show check-libthread-db'
     Control whether GDB should run integrity checks on inferior
     specific thread debugging libraries as they are loaded.  The
     default is not to perform such checks.  If any check fails GDB will
     unload the library and continue searching for a suitable candidate
     as described in *note set libthread-db-search-path::.  For more
     information about the tests, see *note maint check libthread-db::.

'maint space VALUE'
     An alias for 'maint set per-command space'.  A non-zero value
     enables it, zero disables it.

'maint time VALUE'
     An alias for 'maint set per-command time'.  A non-zero value
     enables it, zero disables it.

'maint translate-address [SECTION] ADDR'
     Find the symbol stored at the location specified by the address
     ADDR and an optional section name SECTION.  If found, GDB prints
     the name of the closest symbol and an offset from the symbol's
     location to the specified address.  This is similar to the 'info
     address' command (*note Symbols::), except that this command also
     allows to find symbols in other sections.

     If section was not specified, the section in which the symbol was
     found is also printed.  For dynamically linked executables, the
     name of executable or shared library containing the symbol is
     printed as well.

'maint test-options require-delimiter'
'maint test-options unknown-is-error'
'maint test-options unknown-is-operand'
     These commands are used by the testsuite to validate the command
     options framework.  The 'require-delimiter' variant requires a
     double-dash delimiter to indicate end of options.  The
     'unknown-is-error' and 'unknown-is-operand' do not.  The
     'unknown-is-error' variant throws an error on unknown option, while
     'unknown-is-operand' treats unknown options as the start of the
     command's operands.  When run, the commands output the result of
     the processed options.  When completed, the commands store the
     internal result of completion in a variable exposed by the 'maint
     show test-options-completion-result' command.

'maint show test-options-completion-result'
     Shows the result of completing the 'maint test-options'
     subcommands.  This is used by the testsuite to validate completion
     support in the command options framework.

'maint set test-settings KIND'
'maint show test-settings KIND'
     These are representative commands for each KIND of setting type GDB
     supports.  They are used by the testsuite for exercising the
     settings infrastructure.

'maint with SETTING [VALUE] [-- COMMAND]'
     Like the 'with' command, but works with 'maintenance set'
     variables.  This is used by the testsuite to exercise the 'with'
     command's infrastructure.

   The following command is useful for non-interactive invocations of
GDB, such as in the test suite.

'set watchdog NSEC'
     Set the maximum number of seconds GDB will wait for the target
     operation to finish.  If this time expires, GDB reports and error
     and the command is aborted.

'show watchdog'
     Show the current setting of the target wait timeout.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Remote Protocol,  Next: Agent Expressions,  Prev: Maintenance Commands,  Up: Top

