E.3 Stop Reply Packets
======================

The 'C', 'c', 'S', 's', 'vCont', 'vAttach', 'vRun', 'vStopped', and '?'
packets can receive any of the below as a reply.  Except for '?' and
'vStopped', that reply is only returned when the target halts.  In the
below the exact meaning of "signal number" is defined by the header
'include/gdb/signals.h' in the GDB source code.

   In non-stop mode, the server will simply reply 'OK' to commands such
as 'vCont'; any stop will be the subject of a future notification.
*Note Remote Non-Stop::.

   As in the description of request packets, we include spaces in the
reply templates for clarity; these are not part of the reply packet's
syntax.  No GDB stop reply packet uses spaces to separate its
components.

'S AA'
     The program received signal number AA (a two-digit hexadecimal
     number).  This is equivalent to a 'T' response with no N:R pairs.

'T AA N1:R1;N2:R2;...'
     The program received signal number AA (a two-digit hexadecimal
     number).  This is equivalent to an 'S' response, except that the
     'N:R' pairs can carry values of important registers and other
     information directly in the stop reply packet, reducing round-trip
     latency.  Single-step and breakpoint traps are reported this way.
     Each 'N:R' pair is interpreted as follows:

        * If N is a hexadecimal number, it is a register number, and the
          corresponding R gives that register's value.  The data R is a
          series of bytes in target byte order, with each byte given by
          a two-digit hex number.

        * If N is 'thread', then R is the THREAD-ID of the stopped
          thread, as specified in *note thread-id syntax::.

        * If N is 'core', then R is the hexadecimal number of the core
          on which the stop event was detected.

        * If N is a recognized "stop reason", it describes a more
          specific event that stopped the target.  The currently defined
          stop reasons are listed below.  The AA should be '05', the
          trap signal.  At most one stop reason should be present.

        * Otherwise, GDB should ignore this 'N:R' pair and go on to the
          next; this allows us to extend the protocol in the future.

     The currently defined stop reasons are:

     'watch'
     'rwatch'
     'awatch'
          The packet indicates a watchpoint hit, and R is the data
          address, in hex.

     'syscall_entry'
     'syscall_return'
          The packet indicates a syscall entry or return, and R is the
          syscall number, in hex.

     'library'
          The packet indicates that the loaded libraries have changed.
          GDB should use 'qXfer:libraries:read' to fetch a new list of
          loaded libraries.  The R part is ignored.

     'replaylog'
          The packet indicates that the target cannot continue replaying
          logged execution events, because it has reached the end (or
          the beginning when executing backward) of the log.  The value
          of R will be either 'begin' or 'end'.  *Note Reverse
          Execution::, for more information.

     'swbreak'
          The packet indicates a software breakpoint instruction was
          executed, irrespective of whether it was GDB that planted the
          breakpoint or the breakpoint is hardcoded in the program.  The
          R part must be left empty.

          On some architectures, such as x86, at the architecture level,
          when a breakpoint instruction executes the program counter
          points at the breakpoint address plus an offset.  On such
          targets, the stub is responsible for adjusting the PC to point
          back at the breakpoint address.

          This packet should not be sent by default; older GDB versions
          did not support it.  GDB requests it, by supplying an
          appropriate 'qSupported' feature (*note qSupported::).  The
          remote stub must also supply the appropriate 'qSupported'
          feature indicating support.

          This packet is required for correct non-stop mode operation.

     'hwbreak'
          The packet indicates the target stopped for a hardware
          breakpoint.  The R part must be left empty.

          The same remarks about 'qSupported' and non-stop mode above
          apply.

     'fork'
          The packet indicates that 'fork' was called, and R is the
          thread ID of the new child process.  Refer to *note thread-id
          syntax:: for the format of the THREAD-ID field.  This packet
          is only applicable to targets that support fork events.

          This packet should not be sent by default; older GDB versions
          did not support it.  GDB requests it, by supplying an
          appropriate 'qSupported' feature (*note qSupported::).  The
          remote stub must also supply the appropriate 'qSupported'
          feature indicating support.

     'vfork'
          The packet indicates that 'vfork' was called, and R is the
          thread ID of the new child process.  Refer to *note thread-id
          syntax:: for the format of the THREAD-ID field.  This packet
          is only applicable to targets that support vfork events.

          This packet should not be sent by default; older GDB versions
          did not support it.  GDB requests it, by supplying an
          appropriate 'qSupported' feature (*note qSupported::).  The
          remote stub must also supply the appropriate 'qSupported'
          feature indicating support.

     'vforkdone'
          The packet indicates that a child process created by a vfork
          has either called 'exec' or terminated, so that the address
          spaces of the parent and child process are no longer shared.
          The R part is ignored.  This packet is only applicable to
          targets that support vforkdone events.

          This packet should not be sent by default; older GDB versions
          did not support it.  GDB requests it, by supplying an
          appropriate 'qSupported' feature (*note qSupported::).  The
          remote stub must also supply the appropriate 'qSupported'
          feature indicating support.

     'exec'
          The packet indicates that 'execve' was called, and R is the
          absolute pathname of the file that was executed, in hex.  This
          packet is only applicable to targets that support exec events.

          This packet should not be sent by default; older GDB versions
          did not support it.  GDB requests it, by supplying an
          appropriate 'qSupported' feature (*note qSupported::).  The
          remote stub must also supply the appropriate 'qSupported'
          feature indicating support.

     'create'
          The packet indicates that the thread was just created.  The
          new thread is stopped until GDB sets it running with a
          resumption packet (*note vCont packet::).  This packet should
          not be sent by default; GDB requests it with the *note
          QThreadEvents:: packet.  See also the 'w' (*note thread exit
          event::) remote reply below.  The R part is ignored.

'W AA'
'W AA ; process:PID'
     The process exited, and AA is the exit status.  This is only
     applicable to certain targets.

     The second form of the response, including the process ID of the
     exited process, can be used only when GDB has reported support for
     multiprocess protocol extensions; see *note multiprocess
     extensions::.  Both AA and PID are formatted as big-endian hex
     strings.

'X AA'
'X AA ; process:PID'
     The process terminated with signal AA.

     The second form of the response, including the process ID of the
     terminated process, can be used only when GDB has reported support
     for multiprocess protocol extensions; see *note multiprocess
     extensions::.  Both AA and PID are formatted as big-endian hex
     strings.

'w AA ; TID'

     The thread exited, and AA is the exit status.  This response should
     not be sent by default; GDB requests it with the *note
     QThreadEvents:: packet.  See also *note thread create event::
     above.  AA is formatted as a big-endian hex string.

'N'
     There are no resumed threads left in the target.  In other words,
     even though the process is alive, the last resumed thread has
     exited.  For example, say the target process has two threads:
     thread 1 and thread 2.  The client leaves thread 1 stopped, and
     resumes thread 2, which subsequently exits.  At this point, even
     though the process is still alive, and thus no 'W' stop reply is
     sent, no thread is actually executing either.  The 'N' stop reply
     thus informs the client that it can stop waiting for stop replies.
     This packet should not be sent by default; older GDB versions did
     not support it.  GDB requests it, by supplying an appropriate
     'qSupported' feature (*note qSupported::).  The remote stub must
     also supply the appropriate 'qSupported' feature indicating
     support.

'O XX...'
     'XX...' is hex encoding of ASCII data, to be written as the
     program's console output.  This can happen at any time while the
     program is running and the debugger should continue to wait for
     'W', 'T', etc.  This reply is not permitted in non-stop mode.

'F CALL-ID,PARAMETER...'
     CALL-ID is the identifier which says which host system call should
     be called.  This is just the name of the function.  Translation
     into the correct system call is only applicable as it's defined in
     GDB.  *Note File-I/O Remote Protocol Extension::, for a list of
     implemented system calls.

     'PARAMETER...' is a list of parameters as defined for this very
     system call.

     The target replies with this packet when it expects GDB to call a
     host system call on behalf of the target.  GDB replies with an
     appropriate 'F' packet and keeps up waiting for the next reply
     packet from the target.  The latest 'C', 'c', 'S' or 's' action is
     expected to be continued.  *Note File-I/O Remote Protocol
     Extension::, for more details.

File: gdb.info,  Node: General Query Packets,  Next: Architecture-Specific Protocol Details,  Prev: Stop Reply Packets,  Up: Remote Protocol

