E.4 General Query Packets
=========================

Packets starting with 'q' are "general query packets"; packets starting
with 'Q' are "general set packets".  General query and set packets are a
semi-unified form for retrieving and sending information to and from the
stub.

   The initial letter of a query or set packet is followed by a name
indicating what sort of thing the packet applies to.  For example, GDB
may use a 'qSymbol' packet to exchange symbol definitions with the stub.
These packet names follow some conventions:

   * The name must not contain commas, colons or semicolons.
   * Most GDB query and set packets have a leading upper case letter.
   * The names of custom vendor packets should use a company prefix, in
     lower case, followed by a period.  For example, packets designed at
     the Acme Corporation might begin with 'qacme.foo' (for querying
     foos) or 'Qacme.bar' (for setting bars).

   The name of a query or set packet should be separated from any
parameters by a ':'; the parameters themselves should be separated by
',' or ';'.  Stubs must be careful to match the full packet name, and
check for a separator or the end of the packet, in case two packet names
share a common prefix.  New packets should not begin with 'qC', 'qP', or
'qL'(1).

   Like the descriptions of the other packets, each description here has
a template showing the packet's overall syntax, followed by an
explanation of the packet's meaning.  We include spaces in some of the
templates for clarity; these are not part of the packet's syntax.  No
GDB packet uses spaces to separate its components.

   Here are the currently defined query and set packets:

'QAgent:1'
'QAgent:0'
     Turn on or off the agent as a helper to perform some debugging
     operations delegated from GDB (*note Control Agent::).

'QAllow:OP:VAL...'
     Specify which operations GDB expects to request of the target, as a
     semicolon-separated list of operation name and value pairs.
     Possible values for OP include 'WriteReg', 'WriteMem',
     'InsertBreak', 'InsertTrace', 'InsertFastTrace', and 'Stop'.  VAL
     is either 0, indicating that GDB will not request the operation, or
     1, indicating that it may.  (The target can then use this to set up
     its own internals optimally, for instance if the debugger never
     expects to insert breakpoints, it may not need to install its own
     trap handler.)

'qC'
     Return the current thread ID.

     Reply:
     'QC THREAD-ID'
          Where THREAD-ID is a thread ID as documented in *note
          thread-id syntax::.
     '(anything else)'
          Any other reply implies the old thread ID.

'qCRC:ADDR,LENGTH'
     Compute the CRC checksum of a block of memory using CRC-32 defined
     in IEEE 802.3.  The CRC is computed byte at a time, taking the most
     significant bit of each byte first.  The initial pattern code
     '0xffffffff' is used to ensure leading zeros affect the CRC.

     _Note:_ This is the same CRC used in validating separate debug
     files (*note Debugging Information in Separate Files: Separate
     Debug Files.).  However the algorithm is slightly different.  When
     validating separate debug files, the CRC is computed taking the
     _least_ significant bit of each byte first, and the final result is
     inverted to detect trailing zeros.

     Reply:
     'E NN'
          An error (such as memory fault)
     'C CRC32'
          The specified memory region's checksum is CRC32.

'QDisableRandomization:VALUE'
     Some target operating systems will randomize the virtual address
     space of the inferior process as a security feature, but provide a
     feature to disable such randomization, e.g. to allow for a more
     deterministic debugging experience.  On such systems, this packet
     with a VALUE of 1 directs the target to disable address space
     randomization for processes subsequently started via 'vRun'
     packets, while a packet with a VALUE of 0 tells the target to
     enable address space randomization.

     This packet is only available in extended mode (*note extended
     mode::).

     Reply:
     'OK'
          The request succeeded.

     'E NN'
          An error occurred.  The error number NN is given as hex
          digits.

     ''
          An empty reply indicates that 'QDisableRandomization' is not
          supported by the stub.

     This packet is not probed by default; the remote stub must request
     it, by supplying an appropriate 'qSupported' response (*note
     qSupported::).  This should only be done on targets that actually
     support disabling address space randomization.

'QStartupWithShell:VALUE'
     On UNIX-like targets, it is possible to start the inferior using a
     shell program.  This is the default behavior on both GDB and
     'gdbserver' (*note set startup-with-shell::).  This packet is used
     to inform 'gdbserver' whether it should start the inferior using a
     shell or not.

     If VALUE is '0', 'gdbserver' will not use a shell to start the
     inferior.  If VALUE is '1', 'gdbserver' will use a shell to start
     the inferior.  All other values are considered an error.

     This packet is only available in extended mode (*note extended
     mode::).

     Reply:
     'OK'
          The request succeeded.

     'E NN'
          An error occurred.  The error number NN is given as hex
          digits.

     This packet is not probed by default; the remote stub must request
     it, by supplying an appropriate 'qSupported' response (*note
     qSupported::).  This should only be done on targets that actually
     support starting the inferior using a shell.

     Use of this packet is controlled by the 'set startup-with-shell'
     command; *note set startup-with-shell::.

'QEnvironmentHexEncoded:HEX-VALUE'
     On UNIX-like targets, it is possible to set environment variables
     that will be passed to the inferior during the startup process.
     This packet is used to inform 'gdbserver' of an environment
     variable that has been defined by the user on GDB (*note set
     environment::).

     The packet is composed by HEX-VALUE, an hex encoded representation
     of the NAME=VALUE format representing an environment variable.  The
     name of the environment variable is represented by NAME, and the
     value to be assigned to the environment variable is represented by
     VALUE.  If the variable has no value (i.e., the value is 'null'),
     then VALUE will not be present.

     This packet is only available in extended mode (*note extended
     mode::).

     Reply:
     'OK'
          The request succeeded.

     This packet is not probed by default; the remote stub must request
     it, by supplying an appropriate 'qSupported' response (*note
     qSupported::).  This should only be done on targets that actually
     support passing environment variables to the starting inferior.

     This packet is related to the 'set environment' command; *note set
     environment::.

'QEnvironmentUnset:HEX-VALUE'
     On UNIX-like targets, it is possible to unset environment variables
     before starting the inferior in the remote target.  This packet is
     used to inform 'gdbserver' of an environment variable that has been
     unset by the user on GDB (*note unset environment::).

     The packet is composed by HEX-VALUE, an hex encoded representation
     of the name of the environment variable to be unset.

     This packet is only available in extended mode (*note extended
     mode::).

     Reply:
     'OK'
          The request succeeded.

     This packet is not probed by default; the remote stub must request
     it, by supplying an appropriate 'qSupported' response (*note
     qSupported::).  This should only be done on targets that actually
     support passing environment variables to the starting inferior.

     This packet is related to the 'unset environment' command; *note
     unset environment::.

'QEnvironmentReset'
     On UNIX-like targets, this packet is used to reset the state of
     environment variables in the remote target before starting the
     inferior.  In this context, reset means unsetting all environment
     variables that were previously set by the user (i.e., were not
     initially present in the environment).  It is sent to 'gdbserver'
     before the 'QEnvironmentHexEncoded' (*note
     QEnvironmentHexEncoded::) and the 'QEnvironmentUnset' (*note
     QEnvironmentUnset::) packets.

     This packet is only available in extended mode (*note extended
     mode::).

     Reply:
     'OK'
          The request succeeded.

     This packet is not probed by default; the remote stub must request
     it, by supplying an appropriate 'qSupported' response (*note
     qSupported::).  This should only be done on targets that actually
     support passing environment variables to the starting inferior.

'QSetWorkingDir:[DIRECTORY]'
     This packet is used to inform the remote server of the intended
     current working directory for programs that are going to be
     executed.

     The packet is composed by DIRECTORY, an hex encoded representation
     of the directory that the remote inferior will use as its current
     working directory.  If DIRECTORY is an empty string, the remote
     server should reset the inferior's current working directory to its
     original, empty value.

     This packet is only available in extended mode (*note extended
     mode::).

     Reply:
     'OK'
          The request succeeded.

'qfThreadInfo'
'qsThreadInfo'
     Obtain a list of all active thread IDs from the target (OS). Since
     there may be too many active threads to fit into one reply packet,
     this query works iteratively: it may require more than one
     query/reply sequence to obtain the entire list of threads.  The
     first query of the sequence will be the 'qfThreadInfo' query;
     subsequent queries in the sequence will be the 'qsThreadInfo'
     query.

     NOTE: This packet replaces the 'qL' query (see below).

     Reply:
     'm THREAD-ID'
          A single thread ID
     'm THREAD-ID,THREAD-ID...'
          a comma-separated list of thread IDs
     'l'
          (lower case letter 'L') denotes end of list.

     In response to each query, the target will reply with a list of one
     or more thread IDs, separated by commas.  GDB will respond to each
     reply with a request for more thread ids (using the 'qs' form of
     the query), until the target responds with 'l' (lower-case ell, for
     "last").  Refer to *note thread-id syntax::, for the format of the
     THREAD-ID fields.

     _Note: GDB will send the 'qfThreadInfo' query during the initial
     connection with the remote target, and the very first thread ID
     mentioned in the reply will be stopped by GDB in a subsequent
     message.  Therefore, the stub should ensure that the first thread
     ID in the 'qfThreadInfo' reply is suitable for being stopped by
     GDB._

'qGetTLSAddr:THREAD-ID,OFFSET,LM'
     Fetch the address associated with thread local storage specified by
     THREAD-ID, OFFSET, and LM.

     THREAD-ID is the thread ID associated with the thread for which to
     fetch the TLS address.  *Note thread-id syntax::.

     OFFSET is the (big endian, hex encoded) offset associated with the
     thread local variable.  (This offset is obtained from the debug
     information associated with the variable.)

     LM is the (big endian, hex encoded) OS/ABI-specific encoding of the
     load module associated with the thread local storage.  For example,
     a GNU/Linux system will pass the link map address of the shared
     object associated with the thread local storage under
     consideration.  Other operating environments may choose to
     represent the load module differently, so the precise meaning of
     this parameter will vary.

     Reply:
     'XX...'
          Hex encoded (big endian) bytes representing the address of the
          thread local storage requested.

     'E NN'
          An error occurred.  The error number NN is given as hex
          digits.

     ''
          An empty reply indicates that 'qGetTLSAddr' is not supported
          by the stub.

'qGetTIBAddr:THREAD-ID'
     Fetch address of the Windows OS specific Thread Information Block.

     THREAD-ID is the thread ID associated with the thread.

     Reply:
     'XX...'
          Hex encoded (big endian) bytes representing the linear address
          of the thread information block.

     'E NN'
          An error occured.  This means that either the thread was not
          found, or the address could not be retrieved.

     ''
          An empty reply indicates that 'qGetTIBAddr' is not supported
          by the stub.

'qL STARTFLAG THREADCOUNT NEXTTHREAD'
     Obtain thread information from RTOS. Where: STARTFLAG (one hex
     digit) is one to indicate the first query and zero to indicate a
     subsequent query; THREADCOUNT (two hex digits) is the maximum
     number of threads the response packet can contain; and NEXTTHREAD
     (eight hex digits), for subsequent queries (STARTFLAG is zero), is
     returned in the response as ARGTHREAD.

     Don't use this packet; use the 'qfThreadInfo' query instead (see
     above).

     Reply:
     'qM COUNT DONE ARGTHREAD THREAD...'
          Where: COUNT (two hex digits) is the number of threads being
          returned; DONE (one hex digit) is zero to indicate more
          threads and one indicates no further threads; ARGTHREADID
          (eight hex digits) is NEXTTHREAD from the request packet;
          THREAD... is a sequence of thread IDs, THREADID (eight hex
          digits), from the target.  See
          'remote.c:parse_threadlist_response()'.

'qOffsets'
     Get section offsets that the target used when relocating the
     downloaded image.

     Reply:
     'Text=XXX;Data=YYY[;Bss=ZZZ]'
          Relocate the 'Text' section by XXX from its original address.
          Relocate the 'Data' section by YYY from its original address.
          If the object file format provides segment information (e.g.
          ELF 'PT_LOAD' program headers), GDB will relocate entire
          segments by the supplied offsets.

          _Note: while a 'Bss' offset may be included in the response,
          GDB ignores this and instead applies the 'Data' offset to the
          'Bss' section._

     'TextSeg=XXX[;DataSeg=YYY]'
          Relocate the first segment of the object file, which
          conventionally contains program code, to a starting address of
          XXX.  If 'DataSeg' is specified, relocate the second segment,
          which conventionally contains modifiable data, to a starting
          address of YYY.  GDB will report an error if the object file
          does not contain segment information, or does not contain at
          least as many segments as mentioned in the reply.  Extra
          segments are kept at fixed offsets relative to the last
          relocated segment.

'qP MODE THREAD-ID'
     Returns information on THREAD-ID.  Where: MODE is a hex encoded 32
     bit mode; THREAD-ID is a thread ID (*note thread-id syntax::).

     Don't use this packet; use the 'qThreadExtraInfo' query instead
     (see below).

     Reply: see 'remote.c:remote_unpack_thread_info_response()'.

'QNonStop:1'
'QNonStop:0'
     Enter non-stop ('QNonStop:1') or all-stop ('QNonStop:0') mode.
     *Note Remote Non-Stop::, for more information.

     Reply:
     'OK'
          The request succeeded.

     'E NN'
          An error occurred.  The error number NN is given as hex
          digits.

     ''
          An empty reply indicates that 'QNonStop' is not supported by
          the stub.

     This packet is not probed by default; the remote stub must request
     it, by supplying an appropriate 'qSupported' response (*note
     qSupported::).  Use of this packet is controlled by the 'set
     non-stop' command; *note Non-Stop Mode::.

'QCatchSyscalls:1 [;SYSNO]...'
'QCatchSyscalls:0'
     Enable ('QCatchSyscalls:1') or disable ('QCatchSyscalls:0')
     catching syscalls from the inferior process.

     For 'QCatchSyscalls:1', each listed syscall SYSNO (encoded in hex)
     should be reported to GDB.  If no syscall SYSNO is listed, every
     system call should be reported.

     Note that if a syscall not in the list is reported, GDB will still
     filter the event according to its own list from all corresponding
     'catch syscall' commands.  However, it is more efficient to only
     report the requested syscalls.

     Multiple 'QCatchSyscalls:1' packets do not combine; any earlier
     'QCatchSyscalls:1' list is completely replaced by the new list.

     If the inferior process execs, the state of 'QCatchSyscalls' is
     kept for the new process too.  On targets where exec may affect
     syscall numbers, for example with exec between 32 and 64-bit
     processes, the client should send a new packet with the new syscall
     list.

     Reply:
     'OK'
          The request succeeded.

     'E NN'
          An error occurred.  NN are hex digits.

     ''
          An empty reply indicates that 'QCatchSyscalls' is not
          supported by the stub.

     Use of this packet is controlled by the 'set remote catch-syscalls'
     command (*note set remote catch-syscalls: Remote Configuration.).
     This packet is not probed by default; the remote stub must request
     it, by supplying an appropriate 'qSupported' response (*note
     qSupported::).

'QPassSignals: SIGNAL [;SIGNAL]...'
     Each listed SIGNAL should be passed directly to the inferior
     process.  Signals are numbered identically to continue packets and
     stop replies (*note Stop Reply Packets::).  Each SIGNAL list item
     should be strictly greater than the previous item.  These signals
     do not need to stop the inferior, or be reported to GDB.  All other
     signals should be reported to GDB.  Multiple 'QPassSignals' packets
     do not combine; any earlier 'QPassSignals' list is completely
     replaced by the new list.  This packet improves performance when
     using 'handle SIGNAL nostop noprint pass'.

     Reply:
     'OK'
          The request succeeded.

     'E NN'
          An error occurred.  The error number NN is given as hex
          digits.

     ''
          An empty reply indicates that 'QPassSignals' is not supported
          by the stub.

     Use of this packet is controlled by the 'set remote pass-signals'
     command (*note set remote pass-signals: Remote Configuration.).
     This packet is not probed by default; the remote stub must request
     it, by supplying an appropriate 'qSupported' response (*note
     qSupported::).

'QProgramSignals: SIGNAL [;SIGNAL]...'
     Each listed SIGNAL may be delivered to the inferior process.
     Others should be silently discarded.

     In some cases, the remote stub may need to decide whether to
     deliver a signal to the program or not without GDB involvement.
     One example of that is while detaching -- the program's threads may
     have stopped for signals that haven't yet had a chance of being
     reported to GDB, and so the remote stub can use the signal list
     specified by this packet to know whether to deliver or ignore those
     pending signals.

     This does not influence whether to deliver a signal as requested by
     a resumption packet (*note vCont packet::).

     Signals are numbered identically to continue packets and stop
     replies (*note Stop Reply Packets::).  Each SIGNAL list item should
     be strictly greater than the previous item.  Multiple
     'QProgramSignals' packets do not combine; any earlier
     'QProgramSignals' list is completely replaced by the new list.

     Reply:
     'OK'
          The request succeeded.

     'E NN'
          An error occurred.  The error number NN is given as hex
          digits.

     ''
          An empty reply indicates that 'QProgramSignals' is not
          supported by the stub.

     Use of this packet is controlled by the 'set remote
     program-signals' command (*note set remote program-signals: Remote
     Configuration.).  This packet is not probed by default; the remote
     stub must request it, by supplying an appropriate 'qSupported'
     response (*note qSupported::).

'QThreadEvents:1'
'QThreadEvents:0'

     Enable ('QThreadEvents:1') or disable ('QThreadEvents:0') reporting
     of thread create and exit events.  *Note thread create event::, for
     the reply specifications.  For example, this is used in non-stop
     mode when GDB stops a set of threads and synchronously waits for
     the their corresponding stop replies.  Without exit events, if one
     of the threads exits, GDB would hang forever not knowing that it
     should no longer expect a stop for that same thread.  GDB does not
     enable this feature unless the stub reports that it supports it by
     including 'QThreadEvents+' in its 'qSupported' reply.

     Reply:
     'OK'
          The request succeeded.

     'E NN'
          An error occurred.  The error number NN is given as hex
          digits.

     ''
          An empty reply indicates that 'QThreadEvents' is not supported
          by the stub.

     Use of this packet is controlled by the 'set remote thread-events'
     command (*note set remote thread-events: Remote Configuration.).

'qRcmd,COMMAND'
     COMMAND (hex encoded) is passed to the local interpreter for
     execution.  Invalid commands should be reported using the output
     string.  Before the final result packet, the target may also
     respond with a number of intermediate 'OOUTPUT' console output
     packets.  _Implementors should note that providing access to a
     stubs's interpreter may have security implications_.

     Reply:
     'OK'
          A command response with no output.
     'OUTPUT'
          A command response with the hex encoded output string OUTPUT.
     'E NN'
          Indicate a badly formed request.
     ''
          An empty reply indicates that 'qRcmd' is not recognized.

     (Note that the 'qRcmd' packet's name is separated from the command
     by a ',', not a ':', contrary to the naming conventions above.
     Please don't use this packet as a model for new packets.)

'qSearch:memory:ADDRESS;LENGTH;SEARCH-PATTERN'
     Search LENGTH bytes at ADDRESS for SEARCH-PATTERN.  Both ADDRESS
     and LENGTH are encoded in hex; SEARCH-PATTERN is a sequence of
     bytes, also hex encoded.

     Reply:
     '0'
          The pattern was not found.
     '1,address'
          The pattern was found at ADDRESS.
     'E NN'
          A badly formed request or an error was encountered while
          searching memory.
     ''
          An empty reply indicates that 'qSearch:memory' is not
          recognized.

'QStartNoAckMode'
     Request that the remote stub disable the normal '+'/'-' protocol
     acknowledgments (*note Packet Acknowledgment::).

     Reply:
     'OK'
          The stub has switched to no-acknowledgment mode.  GDB
          acknowledges this response, but neither the stub nor GDB shall
          send or expect further '+'/'-' acknowledgments in the current
          connection.
     ''
          An empty reply indicates that the stub does not support
          no-acknowledgment mode.

'qSupported [:GDBFEATURE [;GDBFEATURE]... ]'
     Tell the remote stub about features supported by GDB, and query the
     stub for features it supports.  This packet allows GDB and the
     remote stub to take advantage of each others' features.
     'qSupported' also consolidates multiple feature probes at startup,
     to improve GDB performance--a single larger packet performs better
     than multiple smaller probe packets on high-latency links.  Some
     features may enable behavior which must not be on by default, e.g.
     because it would confuse older clients or stubs.  Other features
     may describe packets which could be automatically probed for, but
     are not.  These features must be reported before GDB will use them.
     This "default unsupported" behavior is not appropriate for all
     packets, but it helps to keep the initial connection time under
     control with new versions of GDB which support increasing numbers
     of packets.

     Reply:
     'STUBFEATURE [;STUBFEATURE]...'
          The stub supports or does not support each returned
          STUBFEATURE, depending on the form of each STUBFEATURE (see
          below for the possible forms).
     ''
          An empty reply indicates that 'qSupported' is not recognized,
          or that no features needed to be reported to GDB.

     The allowed forms for each feature (either a GDBFEATURE in the
     'qSupported' packet, or a STUBFEATURE in the response) are:

     'NAME=VALUE'
          The remote protocol feature NAME is supported, and associated
          with the specified VALUE.  The format of VALUE depends on the
          feature, but it must not include a semicolon.
     'NAME+'
          The remote protocol feature NAME is supported, and does not
          need an associated value.
     'NAME-'
          The remote protocol feature NAME is not supported.
     'NAME?'
          The remote protocol feature NAME may be supported, and GDB
          should auto-detect support in some other way when it is
          needed.  This form will not be used for GDBFEATURE
          notifications, but may be used for STUBFEATURE responses.

     Whenever the stub receives a 'qSupported' request, the supplied set
     of GDB features should override any previous request.  This allows
     GDB to put the stub in a known state, even if the stub had
     previously been communicating with a different version of GDB.

     The following values of GDBFEATURE (for the packet sent by GDB) are
     defined:

     'multiprocess'
          This feature indicates whether GDB supports multiprocess
          extensions to the remote protocol.  GDB does not use such
          extensions unless the stub also reports that it supports them
          by including 'multiprocess+' in its 'qSupported' reply.  *Note
          multiprocess extensions::, for details.

     'xmlRegisters'
          This feature indicates that GDB supports the XML target
          description.  If the stub sees 'xmlRegisters=' with target
          specific strings separated by a comma, it will report register
          description.

     'qRelocInsn'
          This feature indicates whether GDB supports the 'qRelocInsn'
          packet (*note Relocate instruction reply packet: Tracepoint
          Packets.).

     'swbreak'
          This feature indicates whether GDB supports the swbreak stop
          reason in stop replies.  *Note swbreak stop reason::, for
          details.

     'hwbreak'
          This feature indicates whether GDB supports the hwbreak stop
          reason in stop replies.  *Note swbreak stop reason::, for
          details.

     'fork-events'
          This feature indicates whether GDB supports fork event
          extensions to the remote protocol.  GDB does not use such
          extensions unless the stub also reports that it supports them
          by including 'fork-events+' in its 'qSupported' reply.

     'vfork-events'
          This feature indicates whether GDB supports vfork event
          extensions to the remote protocol.  GDB does not use such
          extensions unless the stub also reports that it supports them
          by including 'vfork-events+' in its 'qSupported' reply.

     'exec-events'
          This feature indicates whether GDB supports exec event
          extensions to the remote protocol.  GDB does not use such
          extensions unless the stub also reports that it supports them
          by including 'exec-events+' in its 'qSupported' reply.

     'vContSupported'
          This feature indicates whether GDB wants to know the supported
          actions in the reply to 'vCont?' packet.

     Stubs should ignore any unknown values for GDBFEATURE.  Any GDB
     which sends a 'qSupported' packet supports receiving packets of
     unlimited length (earlier versions of GDB may reject overly long
     responses).  Additional values for GDBFEATURE may be defined in the
     future to let the stub take advantage of new features in GDB, e.g.
     incompatible improvements in the remote protocol--the
     'multiprocess' feature is an example of such a feature.  The stub's
     reply should be independent of the GDBFEATURE entries sent by GDB;
     first GDB describes all the features it supports, and then the stub
     replies with all the features it supports.

     Similarly, GDB will silently ignore unrecognized stub feature
     responses, as long as each response uses one of the standard forms.

     Some features are flags.  A stub which supports a flag feature
     should respond with a '+' form response.  Other features require
     values, and the stub should respond with an '=' form response.

     Each feature has a default value, which GDB will use if
     'qSupported' is not available or if the feature is not mentioned in
     the 'qSupported' response.  The default values are fixed; a stub is
     free to omit any feature responses that match the defaults.

     Not all features can be probed, but for those which can, the
     probing mechanism is useful: in some cases, a stub's internal
     architecture may not allow the protocol layer to know some
     information about the underlying target in advance.  This is
     especially common in stubs which may be configured for multiple
     targets.

     These are the currently defined stub features and their properties:

     Feature Name              Value          Default   Probe
                               Required                 Allowed
                                                        
     'PacketSize'              Yes            '-'       No
                                                        
     'qXfer:auxv:read'         No             '-'       Yes
                                                        
     'qXfer:btrace:read'       No             '-'       Yes
                                                        
     'qXfer:btrace-conf:read'  No             '-'       Yes
                                                        
     'qXfer:exec-file:read'    No             '-'       Yes
                                                        
     'qXfer:features:read'     No             '-'       Yes
                                                        
     'qXfer:libraries:read'    No             '-'       Yes
                                                        
     'qXfer:libraries-svr4:read'No            '-'       Yes
                                                        
     'augmented-libraries-svr4-read'No        '-'       No
                                                        
     'qXfer:memory-map:read'   No             '-'       Yes
                                                        
     'qXfer:sdata:read'        No             '-'       Yes
                                                        
     'qXfer:siginfo:read'      No             '-'       Yes
                                                        
     'qXfer:siginfo:write'     No             '-'       Yes
                                                        
     'qXfer:threads:read'      No             '-'       Yes
                                                        
     'qXfer:traceframe-info:read'No           '-'       Yes
                                                        
     'qXfer:uib:read'          No             '-'       Yes
                                                        
     'qXfer:fdpic:read'        No             '-'       Yes
                                                        
     'Qbtrace:off'             Yes            '-'       Yes
                                                        
     'Qbtrace:bts'             Yes            '-'       Yes
                                                        
     'Qbtrace:pt'              Yes            '-'       Yes
                                                        
     'Qbtrace-conf:bts:size'   Yes            '-'       Yes
                                                        
     'Qbtrace-conf:pt:size'    Yes            '-'       Yes
                                                        
     'QNonStop'                No             '-'       Yes
                                                        
     'QCatchSyscalls'          No             '-'       Yes
                                                        
     'QPassSignals'            No             '-'       Yes
                                                        
     'QStartNoAckMode'         No             '-'       Yes
                                                        
     'multiprocess'            No             '-'       No
                                                        
     'ConditionalBreakpoints'  No             '-'       No
                                                        
     'ConditionalTracepoints'  No             '-'       No
                                                        
     'ReverseContinue'         No             '-'       No
                                                        
     'ReverseStep'             No             '-'       No
                                                        
     'TracepointSource'        No             '-'       No
                                                        
     'QAgent'                  No             '-'       No
                                                        
     'QAllow'                  No             '-'       No
                                                        
     'QDisableRandomization'   No             '-'       No
                                                        
     'EnableDisableTracepoints'No             '-'       No
                                                        
     'QTBuffer:size'           No             '-'       No
                                                        
     'tracenz'                 No             '-'       No
                                                        
     'BreakpointCommands'      No             '-'       No
                                                        
     'swbreak'                 No             '-'       No
                                                        
     'hwbreak'                 No             '-'       No
                                                        
     'fork-events'             No             '-'       No
                                                        
     'vfork-events'            No             '-'       No
                                                        
     'exec-events'             No             '-'       No
                                                        
     'QThreadEvents'           No             '-'       No
                                                        
     'no-resumed'              No             '-'       No
                                                        

     These are the currently defined stub features, in more detail:

     'PacketSize=BYTES'
          The remote stub can accept packets up to at least BYTES in
          length.  GDB will send packets up to this size for bulk
          transfers, and will never send larger packets.  This is a
          limit on the data characters in the packet, including the
          frame and checksum.  There is no trailing NUL byte in a remote
          protocol packet; if the stub stores packets in a
          NUL-terminated format, it should allow an extra byte in its
          buffer for the NUL. If this stub feature is not supported, GDB
          guesses based on the size of the 'g' packet response.

     'qXfer:auxv:read'
          The remote stub understands the 'qXfer:auxv:read' packet
          (*note qXfer auxiliary vector read::).

     'qXfer:btrace:read'
          The remote stub understands the 'qXfer:btrace:read' packet
          (*note qXfer btrace read::).

     'qXfer:btrace-conf:read'
          The remote stub understands the 'qXfer:btrace-conf:read'
          packet (*note qXfer btrace-conf read::).

     'qXfer:exec-file:read'
          The remote stub understands the 'qXfer:exec-file:read' packet
          (*note qXfer executable filename read::).

     'qXfer:features:read'
          The remote stub understands the 'qXfer:features:read' packet
          (*note qXfer target description read::).

     'qXfer:libraries:read'
          The remote stub understands the 'qXfer:libraries:read' packet
          (*note qXfer library list read::).

     'qXfer:libraries-svr4:read'
          The remote stub understands the 'qXfer:libraries-svr4:read'
          packet (*note qXfer svr4 library list read::).

     'augmented-libraries-svr4-read'
          The remote stub understands the augmented form of the
          'qXfer:libraries-svr4:read' packet (*note qXfer svr4 library
          list read::).

     'qXfer:memory-map:read'
          The remote stub understands the 'qXfer:memory-map:read' packet
          (*note qXfer memory map read::).

     'qXfer:sdata:read'
          The remote stub understands the 'qXfer:sdata:read' packet
          (*note qXfer sdata read::).

     'qXfer:siginfo:read'
          The remote stub understands the 'qXfer:siginfo:read' packet
          (*note qXfer siginfo read::).

     'qXfer:siginfo:write'
          The remote stub understands the 'qXfer:siginfo:write' packet
          (*note qXfer siginfo write::).

     'qXfer:threads:read'
          The remote stub understands the 'qXfer:threads:read' packet
          (*note qXfer threads read::).

     'qXfer:traceframe-info:read'
          The remote stub understands the 'qXfer:traceframe-info:read'
          packet (*note qXfer traceframe info read::).

     'qXfer:uib:read'
          The remote stub understands the 'qXfer:uib:read' packet (*note
          qXfer unwind info block::).

     'qXfer:fdpic:read'
          The remote stub understands the 'qXfer:fdpic:read' packet
          (*note qXfer fdpic loadmap read::).

     'QNonStop'
          The remote stub understands the 'QNonStop' packet (*note
          QNonStop::).

     'QCatchSyscalls'
          The remote stub understands the 'QCatchSyscalls' packet (*note
          QCatchSyscalls::).

     'QPassSignals'
          The remote stub understands the 'QPassSignals' packet (*note
          QPassSignals::).

     'QStartNoAckMode'
          The remote stub understands the 'QStartNoAckMode' packet and
          prefers to operate in no-acknowledgment mode.  *Note Packet
          Acknowledgment::.

     'multiprocess'
          The remote stub understands the multiprocess extensions to the
          remote protocol syntax.  The multiprocess extensions affect
          the syntax of thread IDs in both packets and replies (*note
          thread-id syntax::), and add process IDs to the 'D' packet and
          'W' and 'X' replies.  Note that reporting this feature
          indicates support for the syntactic extensions only, not that
          the stub necessarily supports debugging of more than one
          process at a time.  The stub must not use multiprocess
          extensions in packet replies unless GDB has also indicated it
          supports them in its 'qSupported' request.

     'qXfer:osdata:read'
          The remote stub understands the 'qXfer:osdata:read' packet
          ((*note qXfer osdata read::).

     'ConditionalBreakpoints'
          The target accepts and implements evaluation of conditional
          expressions defined for breakpoints.  The target will only
          report breakpoint triggers when such conditions are true
          (*note Break Conditions: Conditions.).

     'ConditionalTracepoints'
          The remote stub accepts and implements conditional expressions
          defined for tracepoints (*note Tracepoint Conditions::).

     'ReverseContinue'
          The remote stub accepts and implements the reverse continue
          packet (*note bc::).

     'ReverseStep'
          The remote stub accepts and implements the reverse step packet
          (*note bs::).

     'TracepointSource'
          The remote stub understands the 'QTDPsrc' packet that supplies
          the source form of tracepoint definitions.

     'QAgent'
          The remote stub understands the 'QAgent' packet.

     'QAllow'
          The remote stub understands the 'QAllow' packet.

     'QDisableRandomization'
          The remote stub understands the 'QDisableRandomization'
          packet.

     'StaticTracepoint'
          The remote stub supports static tracepoints.

     'InstallInTrace'
          The remote stub supports installing tracepoint in tracing.

     'EnableDisableTracepoints'
          The remote stub supports the 'QTEnable' (*note QTEnable::) and
          'QTDisable' (*note QTDisable::) packets that allow tracepoints
          to be enabled and disabled while a trace experiment is
          running.

     'QTBuffer:size'
          The remote stub supports the 'QTBuffer:size' (*note
          QTBuffer-size::) packet that allows to change the size of the
          trace buffer.

     'tracenz'
          The remote stub supports the 'tracenz' bytecode for collecting
          strings.  See *note Bytecode Descriptions:: for details about
          the bytecode.

     'BreakpointCommands'
          The remote stub supports running a breakpoint's command list
          itself, rather than reporting the hit to GDB.

     'Qbtrace:off'
          The remote stub understands the 'Qbtrace:off' packet.

     'Qbtrace:bts'
          The remote stub understands the 'Qbtrace:bts' packet.

     'Qbtrace:pt'
          The remote stub understands the 'Qbtrace:pt' packet.

     'Qbtrace-conf:bts:size'
          The remote stub understands the 'Qbtrace-conf:bts:size'
          packet.

     'Qbtrace-conf:pt:size'
          The remote stub understands the 'Qbtrace-conf:pt:size' packet.

     'swbreak'
          The remote stub reports the 'swbreak' stop reason for memory
          breakpoints.

     'hwbreak'
          The remote stub reports the 'hwbreak' stop reason for hardware
          breakpoints.

     'fork-events'
          The remote stub reports the 'fork' stop reason for fork
          events.

     'vfork-events'
          The remote stub reports the 'vfork' stop reason for vfork
          events and vforkdone events.

     'exec-events'
          The remote stub reports the 'exec' stop reason for exec
          events.

     'vContSupported'
          The remote stub reports the supported actions in the reply to
          'vCont?' packet.

     'QThreadEvents'
          The remote stub understands the 'QThreadEvents' packet.

     'no-resumed'
          The remote stub reports the 'N' stop reply.

'qSymbol::'
     Notify the target that GDB is prepared to serve symbol lookup
     requests.  Accept requests from the target for the values of
     symbols.

     Reply:
     'OK'
          The target does not need to look up any (more) symbols.
     'qSymbol:SYM_NAME'
          The target requests the value of symbol SYM_NAME (hex
          encoded).  GDB may provide the value by using the
          'qSymbol:SYM_VALUE:SYM_NAME' message, described below.

'qSymbol:SYM_VALUE:SYM_NAME'
     Set the value of SYM_NAME to SYM_VALUE.

     SYM_NAME (hex encoded) is the name of a symbol whose value the
     target has previously requested.

     SYM_VALUE (hex) is the value for symbol SYM_NAME.  If GDB cannot
     supply a value for SYM_NAME, then this field will be empty.

     Reply:
     'OK'
          The target does not need to look up any (more) symbols.
     'qSymbol:SYM_NAME'
          The target requests the value of a new symbol SYM_NAME (hex
          encoded).  GDB will continue to supply the values of symbols
          (if available), until the target ceases to request them.

'qTBuffer'
'QTBuffer'
'QTDisconnected'
'QTDP'
'QTDPsrc'
'QTDV'
'qTfP'
'qTfV'
'QTFrame'
'qTMinFTPILen'

     *Note Tracepoint Packets::.

'qThreadExtraInfo,THREAD-ID'
     Obtain from the target OS a printable string description of thread
     attributes for the thread THREAD-ID; see *note thread-id syntax::,
     for the forms of THREAD-ID.  This string may contain anything that
     the target OS thinks is interesting for GDB to tell the user about
     the thread.  The string is displayed in GDB's 'info threads'
     display.  Some examples of possible thread extra info strings are
     'Runnable', or 'Blocked on Mutex'.

     Reply:
     'XX...'
          Where 'XX...' is a hex encoding of ASCII data, comprising the
          printable string containing the extra information about the
          thread's attributes.

     (Note that the 'qThreadExtraInfo' packet's name is separated from
     the command by a ',', not a ':', contrary to the naming conventions
     above.  Please don't use this packet as a model for new packets.)

'QTNotes'
'qTP'
'QTSave'
'qTsP'
'qTsV'
'QTStart'
'QTStop'
'QTEnable'
'QTDisable'
'QTinit'
'QTro'
'qTStatus'
'qTV'
'qTfSTM'
'qTsSTM'
'qTSTMat'
     *Note Tracepoint Packets::.

'qXfer:OBJECT:read:ANNEX:OFFSET,LENGTH'
     Read uninterpreted bytes from the target's special data area
     identified by the keyword OBJECT.  Request LENGTH bytes starting at
     OFFSET bytes into the data.  The content and encoding of ANNEX is
     specific to OBJECT; it can supply additional details about what
     data to access.

     Reply:
     'm DATA'
          Data DATA (*note Binary Data::) has been read from the target.
          There may be more data at a higher address (although it is
          permitted to return 'm' even for the last valid block of data,
          as long as at least one byte of data was read).  It is
          possible for DATA to have fewer bytes than the LENGTH in the
          request.

     'l DATA'
          Data DATA (*note Binary Data::) has been read from the target.
          There is no more data to be read.  It is possible for DATA to
          have fewer bytes than the LENGTH in the request.

     'l'
          The OFFSET in the request is at the end of the data.  There is
          no more data to be read.

     'E00'
          The request was malformed, or ANNEX was invalid.

     'E NN'
          The offset was invalid, or there was an error encountered
          reading the data.  The NN part is a hex-encoded 'errno' value.

     ''
          An empty reply indicates the OBJECT string was not recognized
          by the stub, or that the object does not support reading.

     Here are the specific requests of this form defined so far.  All
     the 'qXfer:OBJECT:read:...' requests use the same reply formats,
     listed above.

     'qXfer:auxv:read::OFFSET,LENGTH'
          Access the target's "auxiliary vector".  *Note auxiliary
          vector: OS Information.  Note ANNEX must be empty.

          This packet is not probed by default; the remote stub must
          request it, by supplying an appropriate 'qSupported' response
          (*note qSupported::).

     'qXfer:btrace:read:ANNEX:OFFSET,LENGTH'

          Return a description of the current branch trace.  *Note
          Branch Trace Format::.  The annex part of the generic 'qXfer'
          packet may have one of the following values:

          'all'
               Returns all available branch trace.

          'new'
               Returns all available branch trace if the branch trace
               changed since the last read request.

          'delta'
               Returns the new branch trace since the last read request.
               Adds a new block to the end of the trace that begins at
               zero and ends at the source location of the first branch
               in the trace buffer.  This extra block is used to stitch
               traces together.

               If the trace buffer overflowed, returns an error
               indicating the overflow.

          This packet is not probed by default; the remote stub must
          request it by supplying an appropriate 'qSupported' response
          (*note qSupported::).

     'qXfer:btrace-conf:read::OFFSET,LENGTH'

          Return a description of the current branch trace
          configuration.  *Note Branch Trace Configuration Format::.

          This packet is not probed by default; the remote stub must
          request it by supplying an appropriate 'qSupported' response
          (*note qSupported::).

     'qXfer:exec-file:read:ANNEX:OFFSET,LENGTH'
          Return the full absolute name of the file that was executed to
          create a process running on the remote system.  The annex
          specifies the numeric process ID of the process to query,
          encoded as a hexadecimal number.  If the annex part is empty
          the remote stub should return the filename corresponding to
          the currently executing process.

          This packet is not probed by default; the remote stub must
          request it, by supplying an appropriate 'qSupported' response
          (*note qSupported::).

     'qXfer:features:read:ANNEX:OFFSET,LENGTH'
          Access the "target description".  *Note Target Descriptions::.
          The annex specifies which XML document to access.  The main
          description is always loaded from the 'target.xml' annex.

          This packet is not probed by default; the remote stub must
          request it, by supplying an appropriate 'qSupported' response
          (*note qSupported::).

     'qXfer:libraries:read:ANNEX:OFFSET,LENGTH'
          Access the target's list of loaded libraries.  *Note Library
          List Format::.  The annex part of the generic 'qXfer' packet
          must be empty (*note qXfer read::).

          Targets which maintain a list of libraries in the program's
          memory do not need to implement this packet; it is designed
          for platforms where the operating system manages the list of
          loaded libraries.

          This packet is not probed by default; the remote stub must
          request it, by supplying an appropriate 'qSupported' response
          (*note qSupported::).

     'qXfer:libraries-svr4:read:ANNEX:OFFSET,LENGTH'
          Access the target's list of loaded libraries when the target
          is an SVR4 platform.  *Note Library List Format for SVR4
          Targets::.  The annex part of the generic 'qXfer' packet must
          be empty unless the remote stub indicated it supports the
          augmented form of this packet by supplying an appropriate
          'qSupported' response (*note qXfer read::, *note
          qSupported::).

          This packet is optional for better performance on SVR4
          targets.  GDB uses memory read packets to read the SVR4
          library list otherwise.

          This packet is not probed by default; the remote stub must
          request it, by supplying an appropriate 'qSupported' response
          (*note qSupported::).

          If the remote stub indicates it supports the augmented form of
          this packet then the annex part of the generic 'qXfer' packet
          may contain a semicolon-separated list of 'NAME=VALUE'
          arguments.  The currently supported arguments are:

          'start=ADDRESS'
               A hexadecimal number specifying the address of the
               'struct link_map' to start reading the library list from.
               If unset or zero then the first 'struct link_map' in the
               library list will be chosen as the starting point.

          'prev=ADDRESS'
               A hexadecimal number specifying the address of the
               'struct link_map' immediately preceding the 'struct
               link_map' specified by the 'start' argument.  If unset or
               zero then the remote stub will expect that no 'struct
               link_map' exists prior to the starting point.

          Arguments that are not understood by the remote stub will be
          silently ignored.

     'qXfer:memory-map:read::OFFSET,LENGTH'
          Access the target's "memory-map".  *Note Memory Map Format::.
          The annex part of the generic 'qXfer' packet must be empty
          (*note qXfer read::).

          This packet is not probed by default; the remote stub must
          request it, by supplying an appropriate 'qSupported' response
          (*note qSupported::).

     'qXfer:sdata:read::OFFSET,LENGTH'

          Read contents of the extra collected static tracepoint marker
          information.  The annex part of the generic 'qXfer' packet
          must be empty (*note qXfer read::).  *Note Tracepoint Action
          Lists: Tracepoint Actions.

          This packet is not probed by default; the remote stub must
          request it, by supplying an appropriate 'qSupported' response
          (*note qSupported::).

     'qXfer:siginfo:read::OFFSET,LENGTH'
          Read contents of the extra signal information on the target
          system.  The annex part of the generic 'qXfer' packet must be
          empty (*note qXfer read::).

          This packet is not probed by default; the remote stub must
          request it, by supplying an appropriate 'qSupported' response
          (*note qSupported::).

     'qXfer:threads:read::OFFSET,LENGTH'
          Access the list of threads on target.  *Note Thread List
          Format::.  The annex part of the generic 'qXfer' packet must
          be empty (*note qXfer read::).

          This packet is not probed by default; the remote stub must
          request it, by supplying an appropriate 'qSupported' response
          (*note qSupported::).

     'qXfer:traceframe-info:read::OFFSET,LENGTH'

          Return a description of the current traceframe's contents.
          *Note Traceframe Info Format::.  The annex part of the generic
          'qXfer' packet must be empty (*note qXfer read::).

          This packet is not probed by default; the remote stub must
          request it, by supplying an appropriate 'qSupported' response
          (*note qSupported::).

     'qXfer:uib:read:PC:OFFSET,LENGTH'

          Return the unwind information block for PC.  This packet is
          used on OpenVMS/ia64 to ask the kernel unwind information.

          This packet is not probed by default.

     'qXfer:fdpic:read:ANNEX:OFFSET,LENGTH'
          Read contents of 'loadmap's on the target system.  The annex,
          either 'exec' or 'interp', specifies which 'loadmap',
          executable 'loadmap' or interpreter 'loadmap' to read.

          This packet is not probed by default; the remote stub must
          request it, by supplying an appropriate 'qSupported' response
          (*note qSupported::).

     'qXfer:osdata:read::OFFSET,LENGTH'
          Access the target's "operating system information".  *Note
          Operating System Information::.

'qXfer:OBJECT:write:ANNEX:OFFSET:DATA...'
     Write uninterpreted bytes into the target's special data area
     identified by the keyword OBJECT, starting at OFFSET bytes into the
     data.  The binary-encoded data (*note Binary Data::) to be written
     is given by DATA....  The content and encoding of ANNEX is specific
     to OBJECT; it can supply additional details about what data to
     access.

     Reply:
     'NN'
          NN (hex encoded) is the number of bytes written.  This may be
          fewer bytes than supplied in the request.

     'E00'
          The request was malformed, or ANNEX was invalid.

     'E NN'
          The offset was invalid, or there was an error encountered
          writing the data.  The NN part is a hex-encoded 'errno' value.

     ''
          An empty reply indicates the OBJECT string was not recognized
          by the stub, or that the object does not support writing.

     Here are the specific requests of this form defined so far.  All
     the 'qXfer:OBJECT:write:...' requests use the same reply formats,
     listed above.

     'qXfer:siginfo:write::OFFSET:DATA...'
          Write DATA to the extra signal information on the target
          system.  The annex part of the generic 'qXfer' packet must be
          empty (*note qXfer write::).

          This packet is not probed by default; the remote stub must
          request it, by supplying an appropriate 'qSupported' response
          (*note qSupported::).

'qXfer:OBJECT:OPERATION:...'
     Requests of this form may be added in the future.  When a stub does
     not recognize the OBJECT keyword, or its support for OBJECT does
     not recognize the OPERATION keyword, the stub must respond with an
     empty packet.

'qAttached:PID'
     Return an indication of whether the remote server attached to an
     existing process or created a new process.  When the multiprocess
     protocol extensions are supported (*note multiprocess
     extensions::), PID is an integer in hexadecimal format identifying
     the target process.  Otherwise, GDB will omit the PID field and the
     query packet will be simplified as 'qAttached'.

     This query is used, for example, to know whether the remote process
     should be detached or killed when a GDB session is ended with the
     'quit' command.

     Reply:
     '1'
          The remote server attached to an existing process.
     '0'
          The remote server created a new process.
     'E NN'
          A badly formed request or an error was encountered.

'Qbtrace:bts'
     Enable branch tracing for the current thread using Branch Trace
     Store.

     Reply:
     'OK'
          Branch tracing has been enabled.
     'E.errtext'
          A badly formed request or an error was encountered.

'Qbtrace:pt'
     Enable branch tracing for the current thread using Intel Processor
     Trace.

     Reply:
     'OK'
          Branch tracing has been enabled.
     'E.errtext'
          A badly formed request or an error was encountered.

'Qbtrace:off'
     Disable branch tracing for the current thread.

     Reply:
     'OK'
          Branch tracing has been disabled.
     'E.errtext'
          A badly formed request or an error was encountered.

'Qbtrace-conf:bts:size=VALUE'
     Set the requested ring buffer size for new threads that use the
     btrace recording method in bts format.

     Reply:
     'OK'
          The ring buffer size has been set.
     'E.errtext'
          A badly formed request or an error was encountered.

'Qbtrace-conf:pt:size=VALUE'
     Set the requested ring buffer size for new threads that use the
     btrace recording method in pt format.

     Reply:
     'OK'
          The ring buffer size has been set.
     'E.errtext'
          A badly formed request or an error was encountered.

   ---------- Footnotes ----------

   (1) The 'qP' and 'qL' packets predate these conventions, and have
arguments without any terminator for the packet name; we suspect they
are in widespread use in places that are difficult to upgrade.  The 'qC'
packet has no arguments, but some existing stubs (e.g. RedBoot) are
known to not check for the end of the packet.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Architecture-Specific Protocol Details,  Next: Tracepoint Packets,  Prev: General Query Packets,  Up: Remote Protocol

