E.6 Tracepoint Packets
======================

Here we describe the packets GDB uses to implement tracepoints (*note
Tracepoints::).

'QTDP:N:ADDR:ENA:STEP:PASS[:FFLEN][:XLEN,BYTES][-]'
     Create a new tracepoint, number N, at ADDR.  If ENA is 'E', then
     the tracepoint is enabled; if it is 'D', then the tracepoint is
     disabled.  The STEP gives the tracepoint's step count, and PASS
     gives its pass count.  If an 'F' is present, then the tracepoint is
     to be a fast tracepoint, and the FLEN is the number of bytes that
     the target should copy elsewhere to make room for the tracepoint.
     If an 'X' is present, it introduces a tracepoint condition, which
     consists of a hexadecimal length, followed by a comma and
     hex-encoded bytes, in a manner similar to action encodings as
     described below.  If the trailing '-' is present, further 'QTDP'
     packets will follow to specify this tracepoint's actions.

     Replies:
     'OK'
          The packet was understood and carried out.
     'qRelocInsn'
          *Note Relocate instruction reply packet: Tracepoint Packets.
     ''
          The packet was not recognized.

'QTDP:-N:ADDR:[S]ACTION...[-]'
     Define actions to be taken when a tracepoint is hit.  The N and
     ADDR must be the same as in the initial 'QTDP' packet for this
     tracepoint.  This packet may only be sent immediately after another
     'QTDP' packet that ended with a '-'.  If the trailing '-' is
     present, further 'QTDP' packets will follow, specifying more
     actions for this tracepoint.

     In the series of action packets for a given tracepoint, at most one
     can have an 'S' before its first ACTION.  If such a packet is sent,
     it and the following packets define "while-stepping" actions.  Any
     prior packets define ordinary actions -- that is, those taken when
     the tracepoint is first hit.  If no action packet has an 'S', then
     all the packets in the series specify ordinary tracepoint actions.

     The 'ACTION...' portion of the packet is a series of actions,
     concatenated without separators.  Each action has one of the
     following forms:

     'R MASK'
          Collect the registers whose bits are set in MASK, a
          hexadecimal number whose I'th bit is set if register number I
          should be collected.  (The least significant bit is numbered
          zero.)  Note that MASK may be any number of digits long; it
          may not fit in a 32-bit word.

     'M BASEREG,OFFSET,LEN'
          Collect LEN bytes of memory starting at the address in
          register number BASEREG, plus OFFSET.  If BASEREG is '-1',
          then the range has a fixed address: OFFSET is the address of
          the lowest byte to collect.  The BASEREG, OFFSET, and LEN
          parameters are all unsigned hexadecimal values (the '-1' value
          for BASEREG is a special case).

     'X LEN,EXPR'
          Evaluate EXPR, whose length is LEN, and collect memory as it
          directs.  The agent expression EXPR is as described in *note
          Agent Expressions::.  Each byte of the expression is encoded
          as a two-digit hex number in the packet; LEN is the number of
          bytes in the expression (and thus one-half the number of hex
          digits in the packet).

     Any number of actions may be packed together in a single 'QTDP'
     packet, as long as the packet does not exceed the maximum packet
     length (400 bytes, for many stubs).  There may be only one 'R'
     action per tracepoint, and it must precede any 'M' or 'X' actions.
     Any registers referred to by 'M' and 'X' actions must be collected
     by a preceding 'R' action.  (The "while-stepping" actions are
     treated as if they were attached to a separate tracepoint, as far
     as these restrictions are concerned.)

     Replies:
     'OK'
          The packet was understood and carried out.
     'qRelocInsn'
          *Note Relocate instruction reply packet: Tracepoint Packets.
     ''
          The packet was not recognized.

'QTDPsrc:N:ADDR:TYPE:START:SLEN:BYTES'
     Specify a source string of tracepoint N at address ADDR.  This is
     useful to get accurate reproduction of the tracepoints originally
     downloaded at the beginning of the trace run.  The TYPE is the name
     of the tracepoint part, such as 'cond' for the tracepoint's
     conditional expression (see below for a list of types), while BYTES
     is the string, encoded in hexadecimal.

     START is the offset of the BYTES within the overall source string,
     while SLEN is the total length of the source string.  This is
     intended for handling source strings that are longer than will fit
     in a single packet.

     The available string types are 'at' for the location, 'cond' for
     the conditional, and 'cmd' for an action command.  GDB sends a
     separate packet for each command in the action list, in the same
     order in which the commands are stored in the list.

     The target does not need to do anything with source strings except
     report them back as part of the replies to the 'qTfP'/'qTsP' query
     packets.

     Although this packet is optional, and GDB will only send it if the
     target replies with 'TracepointSource' *Note General Query
     Packets::, it makes both disconnected tracing and trace files much
     easier to use.  Otherwise the user must be careful that the
     tracepoints in effect while looking at trace frames are identical
     to the ones in effect during the trace run; even a small
     discrepancy could cause 'tdump' not to work, or a particular trace
     frame not be found.

'QTDV:N:VALUE:BUILTIN:NAME'
     Create a new trace state variable, number N, with an initial value
     of VALUE, which is a 64-bit signed integer.  Both N and VALUE are
     encoded as hexadecimal values.  GDB has the option of not using
     this packet for initial values of zero; the target should simply
     create the trace state variables as they are mentioned in
     expressions.  The value BUILTIN should be 1 (one) if the trace
     state variable is builtin and 0 (zero) if it is not builtin.  GDB
     only sets BUILTIN to 1 if a previous 'qTfV' or 'qTsV' packet had it
     set.  The contents of NAME is the hex-encoded name (without the
     leading '$') of the trace state variable.

'QTFrame:N'
     Select the N'th tracepoint frame from the buffer, and use the
     register and memory contents recorded there to answer subsequent
     request packets from GDB.

     A successful reply from the stub indicates that the stub has found
     the requested frame.  The response is a series of parts,
     concatenated without separators, describing the frame we selected.
     Each part has one of the following forms:

     'F F'
          The selected frame is number N in the trace frame buffer; F is
          a hexadecimal number.  If F is '-1', then there was no frame
          matching the criteria in the request packet.

     'T T'
          The selected trace frame records a hit of tracepoint number T;
          T is a hexadecimal number.

'QTFrame:pc:ADDR'
     Like 'QTFrame:N', but select the first tracepoint frame after the
     currently selected frame whose PC is ADDR; ADDR is a hexadecimal
     number.

'QTFrame:tdp:T'
     Like 'QTFrame:N', but select the first tracepoint frame after the
     currently selected frame that is a hit of tracepoint T; T is a
     hexadecimal number.

'QTFrame:range:START:END'
     Like 'QTFrame:N', but select the first tracepoint frame after the
     currently selected frame whose PC is between START (inclusive) and
     END (inclusive); START and END are hexadecimal numbers.

'QTFrame:outside:START:END'
     Like 'QTFrame:range:START:END', but select the first frame
     _outside_ the given range of addresses (exclusive).

'qTMinFTPILen'
     This packet requests the minimum length of instruction at which a
     fast tracepoint (*note Set Tracepoints::) may be placed.  For
     instance, on the 32-bit x86 architecture, it is possible to use a
     4-byte jump, but it depends on the target system being able to
     create trampolines in the first 64K of memory, which might or might
     not be possible for that system.  So the reply to this packet will
     be 4 if it is able to arrange for that.

     Replies:

     '0'
          The minimum instruction length is currently unknown.
     'LENGTH'
          The minimum instruction length is LENGTH, where LENGTH is a
          hexadecimal number greater or equal to 1.  A reply of 1 means
          that a fast tracepoint may be placed on any instruction
          regardless of size.
     'E'
          An error has occurred.
     ''
          An empty reply indicates that the request is not supported by
          the stub.

'QTStart'
     Begin the tracepoint experiment.  Begin collecting data from
     tracepoint hits in the trace frame buffer.  This packet supports
     the 'qRelocInsn' reply (*note Relocate instruction reply packet:
     Tracepoint Packets.).

'QTStop'
     End the tracepoint experiment.  Stop collecting trace frames.

'QTEnable:N:ADDR'
     Enable tracepoint N at address ADDR in a started tracepoint
     experiment.  If the tracepoint was previously disabled, then
     collection of data from it will resume.

'QTDisable:N:ADDR'
     Disable tracepoint N at address ADDR in a started tracepoint
     experiment.  No more data will be collected from the tracepoint
     unless 'QTEnable:N:ADDR' is subsequently issued.

'QTinit'
     Clear the table of tracepoints, and empty the trace frame buffer.

'QTro:START1,END1:START2,END2:...'
     Establish the given ranges of memory as "transparent".  The stub
     will answer requests for these ranges from memory's current
     contents, if they were not collected as part of the tracepoint hit.

     GDB uses this to mark read-only regions of memory, like those
     containing program code.  Since these areas never change, they
     should still have the same contents they did when the tracepoint
     was hit, so there's no reason for the stub to refuse to provide
     their contents.

'QTDisconnected:VALUE'
     Set the choice to what to do with the tracing run when GDB
     disconnects from the target.  A VALUE of 1 directs the target to
     continue the tracing run, while 0 tells the target to stop tracing
     if GDB is no longer in the picture.

'qTStatus'
     Ask the stub if there is a trace experiment running right now.

     The reply has the form:

     'TRUNNING[;FIELD]...'
          RUNNING is a single digit '1' if the trace is presently
          running, or '0' if not.  It is followed by semicolon-separated
          optional fields that an agent may use to report additional
          status.

     If the trace is not running, the agent may report any of several
     explanations as one of the optional fields:

     'tnotrun:0'
          No trace has been run yet.

     'tstop[:TEXT]:0'
          The trace was stopped by a user-originated stop command.  The
          optional TEXT field is a user-supplied string supplied as part
          of the stop command (for instance, an explanation of why the
          trace was stopped manually).  It is hex-encoded.

     'tfull:0'
          The trace stopped because the trace buffer filled up.

     'tdisconnected:0'
          The trace stopped because GDB disconnected from the target.

     'tpasscount:TPNUM'
          The trace stopped because tracepoint TPNUM exceeded its pass
          count.

     'terror:TEXT:TPNUM'
          The trace stopped because tracepoint TPNUM had an error.  The
          string TEXT is available to describe the nature of the error
          (for instance, a divide by zero in the condition expression);
          it is hex encoded.

     'tunknown:0'
          The trace stopped for some other reason.

     Additional optional fields supply statistical and other
     information.  Although not required, they are extremely useful for
     users monitoring the progress of a trace run.  If a trace has
     stopped, and these numbers are reported, they must reflect the
     state of the just-stopped trace.

     'tframes:N'
          The number of trace frames in the buffer.

     'tcreated:N'
          The total number of trace frames created during the run.  This
          may be larger than the trace frame count, if the buffer is
          circular.

     'tsize:N'
          The total size of the trace buffer, in bytes.

     'tfree:N'
          The number of bytes still unused in the buffer.

     'circular:N'
          The value of the circular trace buffer flag.  '1' means that
          the trace buffer is circular and old trace frames will be
          discarded if necessary to make room, '0' means that the trace
          buffer is linear and may fill up.

     'disconn:N'
          The value of the disconnected tracing flag.  '1' means that
          tracing will continue after GDB disconnects, '0' means that
          the trace run will stop.

'qTP:TP:ADDR'
     Ask the stub for the current state of tracepoint number TP at
     address ADDR.

     Replies:
     'VHITS:USAGE'
          The tracepoint has been hit HITS times so far during the trace
          run, and accounts for USAGE in the trace buffer.  Note that
          'while-stepping' steps are not counted as separate hits, but
          the steps' space consumption is added into the usage number.

'qTV:VAR'
     Ask the stub for the value of the trace state variable number VAR.

     Replies:
     'VVALUE'
          The value of the variable is VALUE.  This will be the current
          value of the variable if the user is examining a running
          target, or a saved value if the variable was collected in the
          trace frame that the user is looking at.  Note that multiple
          requests may result in different reply values, such as when
          requesting values while the program is running.

     'U'
          The value of the variable is unknown.  This would occur, for
          example, if the user is examining a trace frame in which the
          requested variable was not collected.

'qTfP'
'qTsP'
     These packets request data about tracepoints that are being used by
     the target.  GDB sends 'qTfP' to get the first piece of data, and
     multiple 'qTsP' to get additional pieces.  Replies to these packets
     generally take the form of the 'QTDP' packets that define
     tracepoints.  (FIXME add detailed syntax)

'qTfV'
'qTsV'
     These packets request data about trace state variables that are on
     the target.  GDB sends 'qTfV' to get the first vari of data, and
     multiple 'qTsV' to get additional variables.  Replies to these
     packets follow the syntax of the 'QTDV' packets that define trace
     state variables.

'qTfSTM'
'qTsSTM'
     These packets request data about static tracepoint markers that
     exist in the target program.  GDB sends 'qTfSTM' to get the first
     piece of data, and multiple 'qTsSTM' to get additional pieces.
     Replies to these packets take the following form:

     Reply:
     'm ADDRESS:ID:EXTRA'
          A single marker
     'm ADDRESS:ID:EXTRA,ADDRESS:ID:EXTRA...'
          a comma-separated list of markers
     'l'
          (lower case letter 'L') denotes end of list.
     'E NN'
          An error occurred.  The error number NN is given as hex
          digits.
     ''
          An empty reply indicates that the request is not supported by
          the stub.

     The ADDRESS is encoded in hex; ID and EXTRA are strings encoded in
     hex.

     In response to each query, the target will reply with a list of one
     or more markers, separated by commas.  GDB will respond to each
     reply with a request for more markers (using the 'qs' form of the
     query), until the target responds with 'l' (lower-case ell, for
     "last").

'qTSTMat:ADDRESS'
     This packets requests data about static tracepoint markers in the
     target program at ADDRESS.  Replies to this packet follow the
     syntax of the 'qTfSTM' and 'qTsSTM' packets that list static
     tracepoint markers.

'QTSave:FILENAME'
     This packet directs the target to save trace data to the file name
     FILENAME in the target's filesystem.  The FILENAME is encoded as a
     hex string; the interpretation of the file name (relative vs
     absolute, wild cards, etc) is up to the target.

'qTBuffer:OFFSET,LEN'
     Return up to LEN bytes of the current contents of trace buffer,
     starting at OFFSET.  The trace buffer is treated as if it were a
     contiguous collection of traceframes, as per the trace file format.
     The reply consists as many hex-encoded bytes as the target can
     deliver in a packet; it is not an error to return fewer than were
     asked for.  A reply consisting of just 'l' indicates that no bytes
     are available.

'QTBuffer:circular:VALUE'
     This packet directs the target to use a circular trace buffer if
     VALUE is 1, or a linear buffer if the value is 0.

'QTBuffer:size:SIZE'
     This packet directs the target to make the trace buffer be of size
     SIZE if possible.  A value of '-1' tells the target to use whatever
     size it prefers.

'QTNotes:[TYPE:TEXT][;TYPE:TEXT]...'
     This packet adds optional textual notes to the trace run.
     Allowable types include 'user', 'notes', and 'tstop', the TEXT
     fields are arbitrary strings, hex-encoded.

E.6.1 Relocate Instruction Reply Packet
---------------------------------------

When installing fast tracepoints in memory, the target may need to
relocate the instruction currently at the tracepoint address to a
different address in memory.  For most instructions, a simple copy is
enough, but, for example, call instructions that implicitly push the
return address on the stack, and relative branches or other PC-relative
instructions require offset adjustment, so that the effect of executing
the instruction at a different address is the same as if it had executed
in the original location.

   In response to several of the tracepoint packets, the target may also
respond with a number of intermediate 'qRelocInsn' request packets
before the final result packet, to have GDB handle this relocation
operation.  If a packet supports this mechanism, its documentation will
explicitly say so.  See for example the above descriptions for the
'QTStart' and 'QTDP' packets.  The format of the request is:

'qRelocInsn:FROM;TO'

     This requests GDB to copy instruction at address FROM to address
     TO, possibly adjusted so that executing the instruction at TO has
     the same effect as executing it at FROM.  GDB writes the adjusted
     instruction to target memory starting at TO.

   Replies:
'qRelocInsn:ADJUSTED_SIZE'
     Informs the stub the relocation is complete.  The ADJUSTED_SIZE is
     the length in bytes of resulting relocated instruction sequence.
'E NN'
     A badly formed request was detected, or an error was encountered
     while relocating the instruction.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Host I/O Packets,  Next: Interrupts,  Prev: Tracepoint Packets,  Up: Remote Protocol

