F.1 General Bytecode Design
===========================

The agent represents bytecode expressions as an array of bytes.  Each
instruction is one byte long (thus the term "bytecode").  Some
instructions are followed by operand bytes; for example, the 'goto'
instruction is followed by a destination for the jump.

   The bytecode interpreter is a stack-based machine; most instructions
pop their operands off the stack, perform some operation, and push the
result back on the stack for the next instruction to consume.  Each
element of the stack may contain either a integer or a floating point
value; these values are as many bits wide as the largest integer that
can be directly manipulated in the source language.  Stack elements
carry no record of their type; bytecode could push a value as an
integer, then pop it as a floating point value.  However, GDB will not
generate code which does this.  In C, one might define the type of a
stack element as follows:
     union agent_val {
       LONGEST l;
       DOUBLEST d;
     };
where 'LONGEST' and 'DOUBLEST' are 'typedef' names for the largest
integer and floating point types on the machine.

   By the time the bytecode interpreter reaches the end of the
expression, the value of the expression should be the only value left on
the stack.  For tracing applications, 'trace' bytecodes in the
expression will have recorded the necessary data, and the value on the
stack may be discarded.  For other applications, like conditional
breakpoints, the value may be useful.

   Separate from the stack, the interpreter has two registers:
'pc'
     The address of the next bytecode to execute.

'start'
     The address of the start of the bytecode expression, necessary for
     interpreting the 'goto' and 'if_goto' instructions.

Neither of these registers is directly visible to the bytecode language
itself, but they are useful for defining the meanings of the bytecode
operations.

   There are no instructions to perform side effects on the running
program, or call the program's functions; we assume that these
expressions are only used for unobtrusive debugging, not for patching
the running code.

   Most bytecode instructions do not distinguish between the various
sizes of values, and operate on full-width values; the upper bits of the
values are simply ignored, since they do not usually make a difference
to the value computed.  The exceptions to this rule are:

memory reference instructions ('ref'N)
     There are distinct instructions to fetch different word sizes from
     memory.  Once on the stack, however, the values are treated as
     full-size integers.  They may need to be sign-extended; the 'ext'
     instruction exists for this purpose.

the sign-extension instruction ('ext' N)
     These clearly need to know which portion of their operand is to be
     extended to occupy the full length of the word.

   If the interpreter is unable to evaluate an expression completely for
some reason (a memory location is inaccessible, or a divisor is zero,
for example), we say that interpretation "terminates with an error".
This means that the problem is reported back to the interpreter's caller
in some helpful way.  In general, code using agent expressions should
assume that they may attempt to divide by zero, fetch arbitrary memory
locations, and misbehave in other ways.

   Even complicated C expressions compile to a few bytecode
instructions; for example, the expression 'x + y * z' would typically
produce code like the following, assuming that 'x' and 'y' live in
registers, and 'z' is a global variable holding a 32-bit 'int':
     reg 1
     reg 2
     const32 address of z
     ref32
     ext 32
     mul
     add
     end

   In detail, these mean:

'reg 1'
     Push the value of register 1 (presumably holding 'x') onto the
     stack.

'reg 2'
     Push the value of register 2 (holding 'y').

'const32 address of z'
     Push the address of 'z' onto the stack.

'ref32'
     Fetch a 32-bit word from the address at the top of the stack;
     replace the address on the stack with the value.  Thus, we replace
     the address of 'z' with 'z''s value.

'ext 32'
     Sign-extend the value on the top of the stack from 32 bits to full
     length.  This is necessary because 'z' is a signed integer.

'mul'
     Pop the top two numbers on the stack, multiply them, and push their
     product.  Now the top of the stack contains the value of the
     expression 'y * z'.

'add'
     Pop the top two numbers, add them, and push the sum.  Now the top
     of the stack contains the value of 'x + y * z'.

'end'
     Stop executing; the value left on the stack top is the value to be
     recorded.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Bytecode Descriptions,  Next: Using Agent Expressions,  Prev: General Bytecode Design,  Up: Agent Expressions

