F.5 Rationale
=============

Some of the design decisions apparent above are arguable.

What about stack overflow/underflow?
     GDB should be able to query the target to discover its stack size.
     Given that information, GDB can determine at translation time
     whether a given expression will overflow the stack.  But this spec
     isn't about what kinds of error-checking GDB ought to do.

Why are you doing everything in LONGEST?

     Speed isn't important, but agent code size is; using LONGEST brings
     in a bunch of support code to do things like division, etc.  So
     this is a serious concern.

     First, note that you don't need different bytecodes for different
     operand sizes.  You can generate code without _knowing_ how big the
     stack elements actually are on the target.  If the target only
     supports 32-bit ints, and you don't send any 64-bit bytecodes,
     everything just works.  The observation here is that the MIPS and
     the Alpha have only fixed-size registers, and you can still get C's
     semantics even though most instructions only operate on full-sized
     words.  You just need to make sure everything is properly
     sign-extended at the right times.  So there is no need for 32- and
     64-bit variants of the bytecodes.  Just implement everything using
     the largest size you support.

     GDB should certainly check to see what sizes the target supports,
     so the user can get an error earlier, rather than later.  But this
     information is not necessary for correctness.

Why don't you have '>' or '<=' operators?
     I want to keep the interpreter small, and we don't need them.  We
     can combine the 'less_' opcodes with 'log_not', and swap the order
     of the operands, yielding all four asymmetrical comparison
     operators.  For example, '(x <= y)' is '! (x > y)', which is '! (y
     < x)'.

Why do you have 'log_not'?
Why do you have 'ext'?
Why do you have 'zero_ext'?
     These are all easily synthesized from other instructions, but I
     expect them to be used frequently, and they're simple, so I include
     them to keep bytecode strings short.

     'log_not' is equivalent to 'const8 0 equal'; it's used in half the
     relational operators.

     'ext N' is equivalent to 'const8 S-N lsh const8 S-N rsh_signed',
     where S is the size of the stack elements; it follows 'refM' and
     REG bytecodes when the value should be signed.  See the next
     bulleted item.

     'zero_ext N' is equivalent to 'constM MASK log_and'; it's used
     whenever we push the value of a register, because we can't assume
     the upper bits of the register aren't garbage.

Why not have sign-extending variants of the 'ref' operators?
     Because that would double the number of 'ref' operators, and we
     need the 'ext' bytecode anyway for accessing bitfields.

Why not have constant-address variants of the 'ref' operators?
     Because that would double the number of 'ref' operators again, and
     'const32 ADDRESS ref32' is only one byte longer.

Why do the 'refN' operators have to support unaligned fetches?
     GDB will generate bytecode that fetches multi-byte values at
     unaligned addresses whenever the executable's debugging information
     tells it to.  Furthermore, GDB does not know the value the pointer
     will have when GDB generates the bytecode, so it cannot determine
     whether a particular fetch will be aligned or not.

     In particular, structure bitfields may be several bytes long, but
     follow no alignment rules; members of packed structures are not
     necessarily aligned either.

     In general, there are many cases where unaligned references occur
     in correct C code, either at the programmer's explicit request, or
     at the compiler's discretion.  Thus, it is simpler to make the GDB
     agent bytecodes work correctly in all circumstances than to make
     GDB guess in each case whether the compiler did the usual thing.

Why are there no side-effecting operators?
     Because our current client doesn't want them?  That's a cheap
     answer.  I think the real answer is that I'm afraid of implementing
     function calls.  We should re-visit this issue after the present
     contract is delivered.

Why aren't the 'goto' ops PC-relative?
     The interpreter has the base address around anyway for PC bounds
     checking, and it seemed simpler.

Why is there only one offset size for the 'goto' ops?
     Offsets are currently sixteen bits.  I'm not happy with this
     situation either:

     Suppose we have multiple branch ops with different offset sizes.
     As I generate code left-to-right, all my jumps are forward jumps
     (there are no loops in expressions), so I never know the target
     when I emit the jump opcode.  Thus, I have to either always assume
     the largest offset size, or do jump relaxation on the code after I
     generate it, which seems like a big waste of time.

     I can imagine a reasonable expression being longer than 256 bytes.
     I can't imagine one being longer than 64k.  Thus, we need 16-bit
     offsets.  This kind of reasoning is so bogus, but relaxation is
     pathetic.

     The other approach would be to generate code right-to-left.  Then
     I'd always know my offset size.  That might be fun.

Where is the function call bytecode?

     When we add side-effects, we should add this.

Why does the 'reg' bytecode take a 16-bit register number?

     Intel's IA-64 architecture has 128 general-purpose registers, and
     128 floating-point registers, and I'm sure it has some random
     control registers.

Why do we need 'trace' and 'trace_quick'?
     Because GDB needs to record all the memory contents and registers
     an expression touches.  If the user wants to evaluate an expression
     'x->y->z', the agent must record the values of 'x' and 'x->y' as
     well as the value of 'x->y->z'.

Don't the 'trace' bytecodes make the interpreter less general?
     They do mean that the interpreter contains special-purpose code,
     but that doesn't mean the interpreter can only be used for that
     purpose.  If an expression doesn't use the 'trace' bytecodes, they
     don't get in its way.

Why doesn't 'trace_quick' consume its arguments the way everything else does?
     In general, you do want your operators to consume their arguments;
     it's consistent, and generally reduces the amount of stack
     rearrangement necessary.  However, 'trace_quick' is a kludge to
     save space; it only exists so we needn't write 'dup const8 SIZE
     trace' before every memory reference.  Therefore, it's okay for it
     not to consume its arguments; it's meant for a specific context in
     which we know exactly what it should do with the stack.  If we're
     going to have a kludge, it should be an effective kludge.

Why does 'trace16' exist?
     That opcode was added by the customer that contracted Cygnus for
     the data tracing work.  I personally think it is unnecessary;
     objects that large will be quite rare, so it is okay to use 'dup
     const16 SIZE trace' in those cases.

     Whatever we decide to do with 'trace16', we should at least leave
     opcode 0x30 reserved, to remain compatible with the customer who
     added it.

File: gdb.info,  Node: Target Descriptions,  Next: Operating System Information,  Prev: Agent Expressions,  Up: Top

