gdbserver man
=============

gdbserver COMM PROG [ARGS...]

gdbserver -attach COMM PID

gdbserver -multi COMM

   'gdbserver' is a program that allows you to run GDB on a different
machine than the one which is running the program being debugged.

Usage (server (target) side)
----------------------------

First, you need to have a copy of the program you want to debug put onto
the target system.  The program can be stripped to save space if needed,
as 'gdbserver' doesn't care about symbols.  All symbol handling is taken
care of by the GDB running on the host system.

   To use the server, you log on to the target system, and run the
'gdbserver' program.  You must tell it (a) how to communicate with GDB,
(b) the name of your program, and (c) its arguments.  The general syntax
is:

     target> gdbserver COMM PROGRAM [ARGS ...]

   For example, using a serial port, you might say:

     target> gdbserver /dev/com1 emacs foo.txt

   This tells 'gdbserver' to debug emacs with an argument of foo.txt,
and to communicate with GDB via '/dev/com1'.  'gdbserver' now waits
patiently for the host GDB to communicate with it.

   To use a TCP connection, you could say:

     target> gdbserver host:2345 emacs foo.txt

   This says pretty much the same thing as the last example, except that
we are going to communicate with the 'host' GDB via TCP. The 'host:2345'
argument means that we are expecting to see a TCP connection from 'host'
to local TCP port 2345.  (Currently, the 'host' part is ignored.)  You
can choose any number you want for the port number as long as it does
not conflict with any existing TCP ports on the target system.  This
same port number must be used in the host GDBs 'target remote' command,
which will be described shortly.  Note that if you chose a port number
that conflicts with another service, 'gdbserver' will print an error
message and exit.

   'gdbserver' can also attach to running programs.  This is
accomplished via the '--attach' argument.  The syntax is:

     target> gdbserver --attach COMM PID

   PID is the process ID of a currently running process.  It isn't
necessary to point 'gdbserver' at a binary for the running process.

   To start 'gdbserver' without supplying an initial command to run or
process ID to attach, use the '--multi' command line option.  In such
case you should connect using 'target extended-remote' to start the
program you want to debug.

     target> gdbserver --multi COMM

Usage (host side)
-----------------

You need an unstripped copy of the target program on your host system,
since GDB needs to examine its symbol tables and such.  Start up GDB as
you normally would, with the target program as the first argument.  (You
may need to use the '--baud' option if the serial line is running at
anything except 9600 baud.)  That is 'gdb TARGET-PROG', or 'gdb --baud
BAUD TARGET-PROG'.  After that, the only new command you need to know
about is 'target remote' (or 'target extended-remote').  Its argument is
either a device name (usually a serial device, like '/dev/ttyb'), or a
'HOST:PORT' descriptor.  For example:

     (gdb) target remote /dev/ttyb

communicates with the server via serial line '/dev/ttyb', and:

     (gdb) target remote the-target:2345

communicates via a TCP connection to port 2345 on host 'the-target',
where you previously started up 'gdbserver' with the same port number.
Note that for TCP connections, you must start up 'gdbserver' prior to
using the 'target remote' command, otherwise you may get an error that
looks something like 'Connection refused'.

   'gdbserver' can also debug multiple inferiors at once, described in
*note Inferiors Connections and Programs::.  In such case use the
'extended-remote' GDB command variant:

     (gdb) target extended-remote the-target:2345

   The 'gdbserver' option '--multi' may or may not be used in such case.

   There are three different modes for invoking 'gdbserver':

   * Debug a specific program specified by its program name:

          gdbserver COMM PROG [ARGS...]

     The COMM parameter specifies how should the server communicate with
     GDB; it is either a device name (to use a serial line), a TCP port
     number (':1234'), or '-' or 'stdio' to use stdin/stdout of
     'gdbserver'.  Specify the name of the program to debug in PROG.
     Any remaining arguments will be passed to the program verbatim.
     When the program exits, GDB will close the connection, and
     'gdbserver' will exit.

   * Debug a specific program by specifying the process ID of a running
     program:

          gdbserver --attach COMM PID

     The COMM parameter is as described above.  Supply the process ID of
     a running program in PID; GDB will do everything else.  Like with
     the previous mode, when the process PID exits, GDB will close the
     connection, and 'gdbserver' will exit.

   * Multi-process mode - debug more than one program/process:

          gdbserver --multi COMM

     In this mode, GDB can instruct 'gdbserver' which command(s) to run.
     Unlike the other 2 modes, GDB will not close the connection when a
     process being debugged exits, so you can debug several processes in
     the same session.

   In each of the modes you may specify these options:

'--help'
     List all options, with brief explanations.

'--version'
     This option causes 'gdbserver' to print its version number and
     exit.

'--attach'
     'gdbserver' will attach to a running program.  The syntax is:

          target> gdbserver --attach COMM PID

     PID is the process ID of a currently running process.  It isn't
     necessary to point 'gdbserver' at a binary for the running process.

'--multi'
     To start 'gdbserver' without supplying an initial command to run or
     process ID to attach, use this command line option.  Then you can
     connect using 'target extended-remote' and start the program you
     want to debug.  The syntax is:

          target> gdbserver --multi COMM

'--debug'
     Instruct 'gdbserver' to display extra status information about the
     debugging process.  This option is intended for 'gdbserver'
     development and for bug reports to the developers.

'--remote-debug'
     Instruct 'gdbserver' to display remote protocol debug output.  This
     option is intended for 'gdbserver' development and for bug reports
     to the developers.

'--debug-file=FILENAME'
     Instruct 'gdbserver' to send any debug output to the given
     FILENAME.  This option is intended for 'gdbserver' development and
     for bug reports to the developers.

'--debug-format=option1[,option2,...]'
     Instruct 'gdbserver' to include extra information in each line of
     debugging output.  *Note Other Command-Line Arguments for
     gdbserver::.

'--wrapper'
     Specify a wrapper to launch programs for debugging.  The option
     should be followed by the name of the wrapper, then any
     command-line arguments to pass to the wrapper, then '--' indicating
     the end of the wrapper arguments.

'--once'
     By default, 'gdbserver' keeps the listening TCP port open, so that
     additional connections are possible.  However, if you start
     'gdbserver' with the '--once' option, it will stop listening for
     any further connection attempts after connecting to the first GDB
     session.

File: gdb.info,  Node: gcore man,  Next: gdbinit man,  Prev: gdbserver man,  Up: Man Pages

gcore
=====

gcore [-a] [-o PREFIX] PID1 [PID2...PIDN]

   Generate core dumps of one or more running programs with process IDs
PID1, PID2, etc.  A core file produced by 'gcore' is equivalent to one
produced by the kernel when the process crashes (and when 'ulimit -c'
was used to set up an appropriate core dump limit).  However, unlike
after a crash, after 'gcore' finishes its job the program remains
running without any change.

'-a'
     Dump all memory mappings.  The actual effect of this option depends
     on the Operating System.  On GNU/Linux, it will disable
     'use-coredump-filter' (*note set use-coredump-filter::) and enable
     'dump-excluded-mappings' (*note set dump-excluded-mappings::).

'-o PREFIX'
     The optional argument PREFIX specifies the prefix to be used when
     composing the file names of the core dumps.  The file name is
     composed as 'PREFIX.PID', where PID is the process ID of the
     running program being analyzed by 'gcore'.  If not specified,
     PREFIX defaults to GCORE.

File: gdb.info,  Node: gdbinit man,  Next: gdb-add-index man,  Prev: gcore man,  Up: Man Pages

gdbinit
=======

/etc/gdbinit


~/.gdbinit

./.gdbinit

   These files contain GDB commands to automatically execute during GDB
startup.  The lines of contents are canned sequences of commands,
described in *note Sequences::.

   Please read more in *note Startup::.

'/etc/gdbinit'
     System-wide initialization file.  It is executed unless user
     specified GDB option '-nx' or '-n'.  See more in
'(not enabled with --with-system-gdbinit-dir during compilation)'
     System-wide initialization directory.  All files in this directory
     are executed on startup unless user specified GDB option '-nx' or
     '-n', as long as they have a recognized file extension.  See more
     in *note System-wide configuration::.

'~/.gdbinit'
     User initialization file.  It is executed unless user specified GDB
     options '-nx', '-n' or '-nh'.

'./.gdbinit'
     Initialization file for current directory.  It may need to be
     enabled with GDB security command 'set auto-load local-gdbinit'.
     See more in *note Init File in the Current Directory::.

File: gdb.info,  Node: gdb-add-index man,  Prev: gdbinit man,  Up: Man Pages

