2.2.  Model of Operation

  Processes transmit data by calling on the TCP and passing buffers of
  data as arguments.  The TCP packages the data from these buffers into
  segments and calls on the internet module to transmit each segment to
  the destination TCP.  The receiving TCP places the data from a segment
  into the receiving user's buffer and notifies the receiving user.  The
  TCPs include control information in the segments which they use to
  ensure reliable ordered data transmission.

  The model of internet communication is that there is an internet
  protocol module associated with each TCP which provides an interface
  to the local network.  This internet module packages TCP segments
  inside internet datagrams and routes these datagrams to a destination
  internet module or intermediate gateway.  To transmit the datagram
  through the local network, it is embedded in a local network packet.

  The packet switches may perform further packaging, fragmentation, or


                                                                [Page 7]


                                                          September 1981
Transmission Control Protocol
Philosophy



  other operations to achieve the delivery of the local packet to the
  destination internet module.

  At a gateway between networks, the internet datagram is "unwrapped"
  from its local packet and examined to determine through which network
  the internet datagram should travel next.  The internet datagram is
  then "wrapped" in a local packet suitable to the next network and
  routed to the next gateway, or to the final destination.

  A gateway is permitted to break up an internet datagram into smaller
  internet datagram fragments if this is necessary for transmission
  through the next network.  To do this, the gateway produces a set of
  internet datagrams; each carrying a fragment.  Fragments may be
  further broken into smaller fragments at subsequent gateways.  The
  internet datagram fragment format is designed so that the destination
  internet module can reassemble fragments into internet datagrams.

  A destination internet module unwraps the segment from the datagram
  (after reassembling the datagram, if necessary) and passes it to the
  destination TCP.

  This simple model of the operation glosses over many details.  One
  important feature is the type of service.  This provides information
  to the gateway (or internet module) to guide it in selecting the
  service parameters to be used in traversing the next network.
  Included in the type of service information is the precedence of the
  datagram.  Datagrams may also carry security information to permit
  host and gateways that operate in multilevel secure environments to
  properly segregate datagrams for security considerations.

