2.7.  Connection Establishment and Clearing

  To identify the separate data streams that a TCP may handle, the TCP
  provides a port identifier.  Since port identifiers are selected
  independently by each TCP they might not be unique.  To provide for
  unique addresses within each TCP, we concatenate an internet address
  identifying the TCP with a port identifier to create a socket which
  will be unique throughout all networks connected together.

  A connection is fully specified by the pair of sockets at the ends.  A
  local socket may participate in many connections to different foreign
  sockets.  A connection can be used to carry data in both directions,
  that is, it is "full duplex".

  TCPs are free to associate ports with processes however they choose.
  However, several basic concepts are necessary in any implementation.
  There must be well-known sockets which the TCP associates only with
  the "appropriate" processes by some means.  We envision that processes
  may "own" ports, and that processes can initiate connections only on
  the ports they own.  (Means for implementing ownership is a local
  issue, but we envision a Request Port user command, or a method of
  uniquely allocating a group of ports to a given process, e.g., by
  associating the high order bits of a port name with a given process.)

  A connection is specified in the OPEN call by the local port and
  foreign socket arguments.  In return, the TCP supplies a (short) local


[Page 10]                                                               


September 1981                                                          
                                           Transmission Control Protocol
                                                              Philosophy



  connection name by which the user refers to the connection in
  subsequent calls.  There are several things that must be remembered
  about a connection.  To store this information we imagine that there
  is a data structure called a Transmission Control Block (TCB).  One
  implementation strategy would have the local connection name be a
  pointer to the TCB for this connection.  The OPEN call also specifies
  whether the connection establishment is to be actively pursued, or to
  be passively waited for.

  A passive OPEN request means that the process wants to accept incoming
  connection requests rather than attempting to initiate a connection.
  Often the process requesting a passive OPEN will accept a connection
  request from any caller.  In this case a foreign socket of all zeros
  is used to denote an unspecified socket.  Unspecified foreign sockets
  are allowed only on passive OPENs.

  A service process that wished to provide services for unknown other
  processes would issue a passive OPEN request with an unspecified
  foreign socket.  Then a connection could be made with any process that
  requested a connection to this local socket.  It would help if this
  local socket were known to be associated with this service.

  Well-known sockets are a convenient mechanism for a priori associating
  a socket address with a standard service.  For instance, the
  "Telnet-Server" process is permanently assigned to a particular
  socket, and other sockets are reserved for File Transfer, Remote Job
  Entry, Text Generator, Echoer, and Sink processes (the last three
  being for test purposes).  A socket address might be reserved for
  access to a "Look-Up" service which would return the specific socket
  at which a newly created service would be provided.  The concept of a
  well-known socket is part of the TCP specification, but the assignment
  of sockets to services is outside this specification.  (See [4].)

  Processes can issue passive OPENs and wait for matching active OPENs
  from other processes and be informed by the TCP when connections have
  been established.  Two processes which issue active OPENs to each
  other at the same time will be correctly connected.  This flexibility
  is critical for the support of distributed computing in which
  components act asynchronously with respect to each other.

  There are two principal cases for matching the sockets in the local
  passive OPENs and an foreign active OPENs.  In the first case, the
  local passive OPENs has fully specified the foreign socket.  In this
  case, the match must be exact.  In the second case, the local passive
  OPENs has left the foreign socket unspecified.  In this case, any
  foreign socket is acceptable as long as the local sockets match.
  Other possibilities include partially restricted matches.



                                                               [Page 11]


                                                          September 1981
Transmission Control Protocol
Philosophy



  If there are several pending passive OPENs (recorded in TCBs) with the
  same local socket, an foreign active OPEN will be matched to a TCB
  with the specific foreign socket in the foreign active OPEN, if such a
  TCB exists, before selecting a TCB with an unspecified foreign socket.

  The procedures to establish connections utilize the synchronize (SYN)
  control flag and involves an exchange of three messages.  This
  exchange has been termed a three-way hand shake [3].

  A connection is initiated by the rendezvous of an arriving segment
  containing a SYN and a waiting TCB entry each created by a user OPEN
  command.  The matching of local and foreign sockets determines when a
  connection has been initiated.  The connection becomes "established"
  when sequence numbers have been synchronized in both directions.

  The clearing of a connection also involves the exchange of segments,
  in this case carrying the FIN control flag.

