1.1.  Motivation

  Computer communication systems are playing an increasingly important
  role in military, government, and civilian environments.  This
  document focuses its attention primarily on military computer
  communication requirements, especially robustness in the presence of
  communication unreliability and availability in the presence of
  congestion, but many of these problems are found in the civilian and
  government sector as well.

  As strategic and tactical computer communication networks are
  developed and deployed, it is essential to provide means of
  interconnecting them and to provide standard interprocess
  communication protocols which can support a broad range of
  applications.  In anticipation of the need for such standards, the
  Deputy Undersecretary of Defense for Research and Engineering has
  declared the Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) described herein to
  be a basis for DoD-wide inter-process communication protocol
  standardization.

  TCP is a connection-oriented, end-to-end reliable protocol designed to
  fit into a layered hierarchy of protocols which support multi-network
  applications.  The TCP provides for reliable inter-process
  communication between pairs of processes in host computers attached to
  distinct but interconnected computer communication networks.  Very few
  assumptions are made as to the reliability of the communication
  protocols below the TCP layer.  TCP assumes it can obtain a simple,
  potentially unreliable datagram service from the lower level
  protocols.  In principle, the TCP should be able to operate above a
  wide spectrum of communication systems ranging from hard-wired
  connections to packet-switched or circuit-switched networks.


                                                                [Page 1]


                                                          September 1981
Transmission Control Protocol
Introduction



  TCP is based on concepts first described by Cerf and Kahn in [1].  The
  TCP fits into a layered protocol architecture just above a basic
  Internet Protocol [2] which provides a way for the TCP to send and
  receive variable-length segments of information enclosed in internet
  datagram "envelopes".  The internet datagram provides a means for
  addressing source and destination TCPs in different networks.  The
  internet protocol also deals with any fragmentation or reassembly of
  the TCP segments required to achieve transport and delivery through
  multiple networks and interconnecting gateways.  The internet protocol
  also carries information on the precedence, security classification
  and compartmentation of the TCP segments, so this information can be
  communicated end-to-end across multiple networks.

                           Protocol Layering

                        +---------------------+
                        |     higher-level    |
                        +---------------------+
                        |        TCP          |
                        +---------------------+
                        |  internet protocol  |
                        +---------------------+
                        |communication network|
                        +---------------------+

                                Figure 1

  Much of this document is written in the context of TCP implementations
  which are co-resident with higher level protocols in the host
  computer.  Some computer systems will be connected to networks via
  front-end computers which house the TCP and internet protocol layers,
  as well as network specific software.  The TCP specification describes
  an interface to the higher level protocols which appears to be
  implementable even for the front-end case, as long as a suitable
  host-to-front end protocol is implemented.

