2.8.  Data Communication

  The data that flows on a connection may be thought of as a stream of
  octets.  The sending user indicates in each SEND call whether the data
  in that call (and any preceeding calls) should be immediately pushed
  through to the receiving user by the setting of the PUSH flag.

  A sending TCP is allowed to collect data from the sending user and to
  send that data in segments at its own convenience, until the push
  function is signaled, then it must send all unsent data.  When a
  receiving TCP sees the PUSH flag, it must not wait for more data from
  the sending TCP before passing the data to the receiving process.

  There is no necessary relationship between push functions and segment
  boundaries.  The data in any particular segment may be the result of a
  single SEND call, in whole or part, or of multiple SEND calls.

  The purpose of push function and the PUSH flag is to push data through
  from the sending user to the receiving user.  It does not provide a
  record service.

  There is a coupling between the push function and the use of buffers
  of data that cross the TCP/user interface.  Each time a PUSH flag is
  associated with data placed into the receiving user's buffer, the
  buffer is returned to the user for processing even if the buffer is
  not filled.  If data arrives that fills the user's buffer before a
  PUSH is seen, the data is passed to the user in buffer size units.

  TCP also provides a means to communicate to the receiver of data that
  at some point further along in the data stream than the receiver is


[Page 12]                                                               


September 1981                                                          
                                           Transmission Control Protocol
                                                              Philosophy



  currently reading there is urgent data.  TCP does not attempt to
  define what the user specifically does upon being notified of pending
  urgent data, but the general notion is that the receiving process will
  take action to process the urgent data quickly.

