3.7.  Data Communication

  Once the connection is established data is communicated by the
  exchange of segments.  Because segments may be lost due to errors
  (checksum test failure), or network congestion, TCP uses
  retransmission (after a timeout) to ensure delivery of every segment.
  Duplicate segments may arrive due to network or TCP retransmission.
  As discussed in the section on sequence numbers the TCP performs
  certain tests on the sequence and acknowledgment numbers in the
  segments to verify their acceptability.

  The sender of data keeps track of the next sequence number to use in
  the variable SND.NXT.  The receiver of data keeps track of the next
  sequence number to expect in the variable RCV.NXT.  The sender of data
  keeps track of the oldest unacknowledged sequence number in the
  variable SND.UNA.  If the data flow is momentarily idle and all data
  sent has been acknowledged then the three variables will be equal.

  When the sender creates a segment and transmits it the sender advances
  SND.NXT.  When the receiver accepts a segment it advances RCV.NXT and
  sends an acknowledgment.  When the data sender receives an


[Page 40]                                                               


September 1981                                                          
                                           Transmission Control Protocol
                                                Functional Specification



  acknowledgment it advances SND.UNA.  The extent to which the values of
  these variables differ is a measure of the delay in the communication.
  The amount by which the variables are advanced is the length of the
  data in the segment.  Note that once in the ESTABLISHED state all
  segments must carry current acknowledgment information.

  The CLOSE user call implies a push function, as does the FIN control
  flag in an incoming segment.

  Retransmission Timeout

  Because of the variability of the networks that compose an
  internetwork system and the wide range of uses of TCP connections the
  retransmission timeout must be dynamically determined.  One procedure
  for determining a retransmission time out is given here as an
  illustration.

    An Example Retransmission Timeout Procedure

      Measure the elapsed time between sending a data octet with a
      particular sequence number and receiving an acknowledgment that
      covers that sequence number (segments sent do not have to match
      segments received).  This measured elapsed time is the Round Trip
      Time (RTT).  Next compute a Smoothed Round Trip Time (SRTT) as:

        SRTT = ( ALPHA * SRTT ) + ((1-ALPHA) * RTT)

      and based on this, compute the retransmission timeout (RTO) as:

        RTO = min[UBOUND,max[LBOUND,(BETA*SRTT)]]

      where UBOUND is an upper bound on the timeout (e.g., 1 minute),
      LBOUND is a lower bound on the timeout (e.g., 1 second), ALPHA is
      a smoothing factor (e.g., .8 to .9), and BETA is a delay variance
      factor (e.g., 1.3 to 2.0).

  The Communication of Urgent Information

  The objective of the TCP urgent mechanism is to allow the sending user
  to stimulate the receiving user to accept some urgent data and to
  permit the receiving TCP to indicate to the receiving user when all
  the currently known urgent data has been received by the user.

  This mechanism permits a point in the data stream to be designated as
  the end of urgent information.  Whenever this point is in advance of
  the receive sequence number (RCV.NXT) at the receiving TCP, that TCP
  must tell the user to go into "urgent mode"; when the receive sequence
  number catches up to the urgent pointer, the TCP must tell user to go


                                                               [Page 41]


                                                          September 1981
Transmission Control Protocol
Functional Specification



  into "normal mode".  If the urgent pointer is updated while the user
  is in "urgent mode", the update will be invisible to the user.

  The method employs a urgent field which is carried in all segments
  transmitted.  The URG control flag indicates that the urgent field is
  meaningful and must be added to the segment sequence number to yield
  the urgent pointer.  The absence of this flag indicates that there is
  no urgent data outstanding.

  To send an urgent indication the user must also send at least one data
  octet.  If the sending user also indicates a push, timely delivery of
  the urgent information to the destination process is enhanced.

  Managing the Window

  The window sent in each segment indicates the range of sequence
  numbers the sender of the window (the data receiver) is currently
  prepared to accept.  There is an assumption that this is related to
  the currently available data buffer space available for this
  connection.

  Indicating a large window encourages transmissions.  If more data
  arrives than can be accepted, it will be discarded.  This will result
  in excessive retransmissions, adding unnecessarily to the load on the
  network and the TCPs.  Indicating a small window may restrict the
  transmission of data to the point of introducing a round trip delay
  between each new segment transmitted.

  The mechanisms provided allow a TCP to advertise a large window and to
  subsequently advertise a much smaller window without having accepted
  that much data.  This, so called "shrinking the window," is strongly
  discouraged.  The robustness principle dictates that TCPs will not
  shrink the window themselves, but will be prepared for such behavior
  on the part of other TCPs.

  The sending TCP must be prepared to accept from the user and send at
  least one octet of new data even if the send window is zero.  The
  sending TCP must regularly retransmit to the receiving TCP even when
  the window is zero.  Two minutes is recommended for the retransmission
  interval when the window is zero.  This retransmission is essential to
  guarantee that when either TCP has a zero window the re-opening of the
  window will be reliably reported to the other.

  When the receiving TCP has a zero window and a segment arrives it must
  still send an acknowledgment showing its next expected sequence number
  and current window (zero).

  The sending TCP packages the data to be transmitted into segments


[Page 42]                                                               


September 1981                                                          
                                           Transmission Control Protocol
                                                Functional Specification



  which fit the current window, and may repackage segments on the
  retransmission queue.  Such repackaging is not required, but may be
  helpful.

  In a connection with a one-way data flow, the window information will
  be carried in acknowledgment segments that all have the same sequence
  number so there will be no way to reorder them if they arrive out of
  order.  This is not a serious problem, but it will allow the window
  information to be on occasion temporarily based on old reports from
  the data receiver.  A refinement to avoid this problem is to act on
  the window information from segments that carry the highest
  acknowledgment number (that is segments with acknowledgment number
  equal or greater than the highest previously received).

  The window management procedure has significant influence on the
  communication performance.  The following comments are suggestions to
  implementers.

    Window Management Suggestions

      Allocating a very small window causes data to be transmitted in
      many small segments when better performance is achieved using
      fewer large segments.

      One suggestion for avoiding small windows is for the receiver to
      defer updating a window until the additional allocation is at
      least X percent of the maximum allocation possible for the
      connection (where X might be 20 to 40).

      Another suggestion is for the sender to avoid sending small
      segments by waiting until the window is large enough before
      sending data.  If the the user signals a push function then the
      data must be sent even if it is a small segment.

      Note that the acknowledgments should not be delayed or unnecessary
      retransmissions will result.  One strategy would be to send an
      acknowledgment when a small segment arrives (with out updating the
      window information), and then to send another acknowledgment with
      new window information when the window is larger.

      The segment sent to probe a zero window may also begin a break up
      of transmitted data into smaller and smaller segments.  If a
      segment containing a single data octet sent to probe a zero window
      is accepted, it consumes one octet of the window now available.
      If the sending TCP simply sends as much as it can whenever the
      window is non zero, the transmitted data will be broken into
      alternating big and small segments.  As time goes on, occasional
      pauses in the receiver making window allocation available will


                                                               [Page 43]


                                                          September 1981
Transmission Control Protocol
Functional Specification



      result in breaking the big segments into a small and not quite so
      big pair. And after a while the data transmission will be in
      mostly small segments.

      The suggestion here is that the TCP implementations need to
      actively attempt to combine small window allocations into larger
      windows, since the mechanisms for managing the window tend to lead
      to many small windows in the simplest minded implementations.

