1.  Introduction

   This document specifies how DNS resource records are named and
   structured to facilitate service discovery.  Given a type of service
   that a client is looking for, and a domain in which the client is
   looking for that service, this mechanism allows clients to discover a
   list of named instances of that desired service, using standard DNS
   queries.  This mechanism is referred to as DNS-based Service
   Discovery, or DNS-SD.

   This document proposes no change to the structure of DNS messages,
   and no new operation codes, response codes, resource record types, or
   any other new DNS protocol values.

   This document specifies that a particular service instance can be
   described using a DNS SRV [RFC2782] and DNS TXT [RFC1035] record.
   The SRV record has a name of the form "<Instance>.<Service>.<Domain>"
   and gives the target host and port where the service instance can be
   reached.  The DNS TXT record of the same name gives additional
   information about this instance, in a structured form using key/value
   pairs, described in Section 6.  A client discovers the list of
   available instances of a given service type using a query for a DNS
   PTR [RFC1035] record with a name of the form "<Service>.<Domain>",
   which returns a set of zero or more names, which are the names of the
   aforementioned DNS SRV/TXT record pairs.

   This specification is compatible with both Multicast DNS [RFC6762]
   and with today's existing Unicast DNS server and client software.

   When used with Multicast DNS, DNS-SD can provide zero-configuration
   operation -- just connect a DNS-SD/mDNS device, and its services are
   advertised on the local link with no further user interaction [ZC].

   When used with conventional Unicast DNS, some configuration will
   usually be required -- such as configuring the device with the DNS
   domain(s) in which it should advertise its services, and configuring
   it with the DNS Update [RFC2136] [RFC3007] keys to give it permission
   to do so.  In rare cases, such as a secure corporate network behind a



Cheshire & Krochmal          Standards Track                    [Page 3]

RFC 6763               DNS-Based Service Discovery         February 2013


   firewall where no DNS Update keys are required, zero-configuration
   operation may be achieved by simply having the device register its
   services in a default registration domain learned from the network
   (see Section 11, "Discovery of Browsing and Registration Domains"),
   but this is the exception and usually security credentials will be
   required to perform DNS updates.

   Note that when using DNS-SD with Unicast DNS, the Unicast DNS-SD
   service does NOT have to be provided by the same DNS server hardware
   that is currently providing an organization's conventional host name
   lookup service.  While many people think of "DNS" exclusively in the
   context of mapping host names to IP addresses, in fact, "the DNS is a
   general (if somewhat limited) hierarchical database, and can store
   almost any kind of data, for almost any purpose" [RFC2181].  By
   delegating the "_tcp" and "_udp" subdomains, all the workload related
   to DNS-SD can be offloaded to a different machine.  This flexibility,
   to handle DNS-SD on the main DNS server or not, at the network
   administrator's discretion, is one of the benefits of using DNS.

   Even when the DNS-SD functions are delegated to a different machine,
   the benefits of using DNS remain: it is mature technology, well
   understood, with multiple independent implementations from different
   vendors, a wide selection of books published on the subject, and an
   established workforce experienced in its operation.  In contrast,
   adopting some other service discovery technology would require every
   site in the world to install, learn, configure, operate, and maintain
   some entirely new and unfamiliar server software.  Faced with these
   obstacles, it seems unlikely that any other service discovery
   technology could hope to compete with the ubiquitous deployment that
   DNS already enjoys.  For further discussion, see Appendix A,
   "Rationale for Using DNS as a Basis for Service Discovery".

   This document is written for two audiences: for developers creating
   application software that offers or accesses services on the network,
   and for developers creating DNS-SD libraries to implement the
   advertising and discovery mechanisms.  For both audiences,
   understanding the entire document is helpful.  For developers
   creating application software, this document provides guidance on
   choosing instance names, service names, and other aspects that play a
   role in creating a good overall user experience.  However, also
   understanding the underlying DNS mechanisms used to provide the
   service discovery facilities helps application developers understand
   the capabilities and limitations of those underlying mechanisms
   (e.g., name length limits).  For library developers writing software
   to construct the DNS records (to advertise a service) and generate
   the DNS queries (to discover and use a service), understanding the
   ultimate user-experience goals helps them provide APIs that can meet
   those goals.



Cheshire & Krochmal          Standards Track                    [Page 4]

RFC 6763               DNS-Based Service Discovery         February 2013


