6.8.  Service Instances with Multiple TXT Records

   Generally speaking, every DNS-SD service instance has exactly one TXT
   record.  However, it is possible for a particular protocol's DNS-SD
   advertising specification to state that it allows multiple TXT
   records.  In this case, each TXT record describes a different variant
   of the same logical service, offered using the same underlying
   protocol on the same port, described by the same SRV record.

   Having multiple TXT records to describe a single service instance is
   very rare, and to date, of the many hundreds of registered DNS-SD
   service types [SN], only one makes use of this capability, namely LPR
   printing [BJP].  This capability is used when a printer conceptually
   supports multiple logical queue names, where each different logical
   queue name implements a different page description language, such as
   80-column monospaced plain text, seven-bit Adobe PostScript, eight-
   bit ("binary") PostScript, or some proprietary page description
   language.  When multiple TXT records are used to describe multiple
   logical LPR queue names for the same underlying service, printers
   include two additional keys in each TXT record: 'qtotal', which
   specifies the total number of TXT records associated with this SRV
   record, and 'priority', which gives the printer's relative preference
   for this particular TXT record.  Clients then select the most
   preferred TXT record that meets the client's needs [BJP].  The only
   reason multiple TXT records are used is because the LPR protocol
   lacks in-band feature-negotiation capabilities for the client and
   server to agree on a data representation for the print job, so this
   information has to be communicated out-of-band instead using the DNS-
   SD TXT records.  Future protocol designs should not follow this bad
   example by mimicking this inadequacy of the LPR printing protocol.




Cheshire & Krochmal          Standards Track                   [Page 18]

RFC 6763               DNS-Based Service Discovery         February 2013


