7.  Service Names

   The <Service> portion of a Service Instance Name consists of a pair
   of DNS labels, following the convention already established for SRV
   records [RFC2782].

   The first label of the pair is an underscore character followed by
   the Service Name [RFC6335].  The Service Name identifies what the
   service does and what application protocol it uses to do it.

   For applications using TCP, the second label is "_tcp".

   For applications using any transport protocol other than TCP, the
   second label is "_udp".  This applies to all other transport
   protocols, including User Datagram Protocol (UDP), Stream Control
   Transmission Protocol (SCTP) [RFC4960], Datagram Congestion Control
   Protocol (DCCP) [RFC4340], Adobe's Real Time Media Flow Protocol
   (RTMFP), etc.  In retrospect, perhaps the SRV specification should
   not have used the "_tcp" and "_udp" labels at all, and instead should
   have used a single label "_srv" to carve off a subdomain of DNS
   namespace for this use, but that specification is already published
   and deployed.  At this point there is no benefit in changing
   established practice.  While "_srv" might be aesthetically nicer than
   "_udp", it is not a user-visible string, and all that is required
   protocol-wise is (i) that it be a label that can form a DNS
   delegation point, and (ii) that it be short so that it does not take
   up too much space in the packet, and in this respect either "_udp" or
   "_srv" is equally good.  Thus, it makes sense to use "_tcp" for TCP-
   based services and "_udp" for all other transport protocols -- which
   are in fact, in today's world, often encapsulated over UDP -- rather
   than defining a new subdomain for every new transport protocol.

   Note that this usage of the "_udp" label for all protocols other than
   TCP applies exclusively to DNS-SD service advertising, i.e., services
   advertised using the PTR+SRV+TXT convention specified in this
   document.  It is not a requirement of SRV records in general.  Other
   specifications that are independent of DNS-SD and not intended to
   interoperate with DNS-SD records are not in any way constrained by
   how DNS-SD works just because they also use the DNS SRV record
   datatype [RFC2782]; they are free to specify their own naming
   conventions as appropriate.

   The rules for Service Names [RFC6335] state that they may be no more
   than fifteen characters long (not counting the mandatory underscore),
   consisting of only letters, digits, and hyphens, must begin and end
   with a letter or digit, must not contain consecutive hyphens, and
   must contain at least one letter.  The requirement to contain at
   least one letter is to disallow Service Names such as "80" or



Cheshire & Krochmal          Standards Track                   [Page 19]

RFC 6763               DNS-Based Service Discovery         February 2013


   "6000-6063", which could be misinterpreted as port numbers or port
   number ranges.  While both uppercase and lowercase letters may be
   used for mnemonic clarity, case is ignored for comparison purposes,
   so the strings "HTTP" and "http" refer to the same service.

   Wise selection of a Service Name is important, and the choice is not
   always as obvious as it may appear.

   In many cases, the Service Name merely names and refers to the on-
   the-wire message format and semantics being used.  FTP is "ftp", IPP
   printing is "ipp", and so on.

   However, it is common to "borrow" an existing protocol and repurpose
   it for a new task.  This is entirely sensible and sound engineering
   practice, but that doesn't mean that the new protocol is providing
   the same semantic service as the old one, even if it borrows the same
   message formats.  For example, the network music sharing protocol
   implemented by iTunes on Macintosh and Windows is built upon "HTTP
   GET" commands.  However, that does *not* mean that it is sensible or
   useful to try to access one of these music servers by connecting to
   it with a standard web browser.  Consequently, the DNS-SD service
   advertised (and browsed for) by iTunes is "_daap._tcp" (Digital Audio
   Access Protocol), not "_http._tcp".

   If iTunes were to advertise that it offered "_http._tcp" service,
   that would cause iTunes servers to appear in conventional web
   browsers (Safari, Camino, OmniWeb, Internet Explorer, Firefox,
   Chrome, etc.), which is of little use since an iTunes music library
   offers no HTML pages containing human-readable content that a web
   browser could display.

   Equally, if iTunes were to browse for "_http._tcp" service, that
   would cause it to discover generic web servers, such as the embedded
   web servers in devices like printers, which is of little use since
   printers generally don't have much music to offer.

   Analogously, Sun Microsystems's Network File System (NFS) is built on
   top of Sun Microsystems's Remote Procedure Call (Sun RPC) mechanism,
   but that doesn't mean it makes sense for an NFS server to advertise
   that it provides "Sun RPC" service.  Likewise, Microsoft's Server
   Message Block (SMB) file service is built on top of Netbios running
   over IP, but that doesn't mean it makes sense for an SMB file server
   to advertise that it provides "Netbios-over-IP" service.  The DNS-SD
   name of a service needs to encapsulate both the "what" (semantics)
   and the "how" (protocol implementation) of the service, since
   knowledge of both is necessary for a client to use the service
   meaningfully.  Merely advertising that a service was built on top of
   Sun RPC is no use if the client has no idea what the service does.



Cheshire & Krochmal          Standards Track                   [Page 20]

RFC 6763               DNS-Based Service Discovery         February 2013


   Another common question is whether the service type advertised by
   iTunes should be "_daap._http._tcp."  This would also be incorrect.
   Similarly, a protocol designer implementing a network service that
   happens to use the Simple Object Access Protocol [SOAP] should not
   feel compelled to have "_soap" appear somewhere in the Service Name.
   Part of the confusion here is that the presence of "_tcp" or "_udp"
   in the <Service> portion of a Service Instance Name has led people to
   assume that the visible structure of the <Service> should reflect
   the private internal structure of how the protocol was implemented.
   This is not correct.  All that is required is that the service be
   identified by some unique opaque Service Name.  Making the Service
   Name be English text that is at least marginally descriptive of what
   the service does may be convenient, but it is by no means essential.

