Appendix A.  Rationale for Using DNS as a Basis for Service Discovery

   Over the years, there have been many proposed ways to do network
   service discovery with IP, but none achieved ubiquity in the
   marketplace.  Certainly none has achieved anything close to the
   ubiquity of today's deployment of DNS servers, clients, and other
   infrastructure.

   The advantage of using DNS as the basis for service discovery is that
   it makes use of those existing servers, clients, protocols,
   infrastructure, and expertise.  Existing network analyzer tools
   already know how to decode and display DNS packets for network
   debugging.

   For ad hoc networks such as Zeroconf environments, peer-to-peer
   multicast protocols are appropriate.  Using DNS-SD running over
   Multicast DNS [RFC6762] provides zero-configuration ad hoc service
   discovery, while maintaining the DNS-SD semantics and record types
   described here.

   In larger networks, a high volume of enterprise-wide IP multicast
   traffic may not be desirable, so any credible service discovery
   protocol intended for larger networks has to provide some facility to
   aggregate registrations and lookups at a central server (or servers)
   instead of working exclusively using multicast.  This requires some
   service discovery aggregation server software to be written,
   debugged, deployed, and maintained.  This also requires some service
   discovery registration protocol to be implemented and deployed for
   clients to register with the central aggregation server.  Virtually
   every company with an IP network already runs a DNS server, and DNS
   already has a dynamic registration protocol [RFC2136] [RFC3007].
   Given that virtually every company already has to operate and
   maintain a DNS server anyway, it makes sense to take advantage of
   this expertise instead of also having to learn, operate, and maintain
   a different service registration server.  It should be stressed again
   that using the same software and protocols doesn't necessarily mean
   using the same physical piece of hardware.  The DNS-SD service
   discovery functions do not have to be provided by the same piece of
   hardware that is currently providing the company's DNS name service.
   The "_tcp.<Domain>" and "_udp.<Domain>" subdomains may be delegated
   to a different piece of hardware.  However, even when the DNS-SD
   service is being provided by a different piece of hardware, it is
   still the same familiar DNS server software, with the same
   configuration file syntax, the same log file format, and so forth.

   Service discovery needs to be able to provide appropriate security.
   DNS already has existing mechanisms for security [RFC4033].




Cheshire & Krochmal          Standards Track                   [Page 37]

RFC 6763               DNS-Based Service Discovery         February 2013


   In summary:

      Service discovery requires a central aggregation server.
      DNS already has one: a DNS server.

      Service discovery requires a service registration protocol.
      DNS already has one: DNS Dynamic Update.

      Service discovery requires a query protocol.
      DNS already has one: DNS queries.

      Service discovery requires security mechanisms.
      DNS already has security mechanisms: DNSSEC.

      Service discovery requires a multicast mode for ad hoc networks.
      Using DNS-SD in conjunction with Multicast DNS provides this,
      using peer-to-peer multicast instead of a DNS server.

   It makes more sense to use the existing software that every network
   needs already, instead of deploying an entire parallel system just
   for service discovery.

