16.  IANA Considerations

   IANA manages the namespace of unique Service Names [RFC6335].

   When a protocol service advertising specification includes subtypes,
   these should be documented in the protocol specification in question
   and/or in the "notes" field of the registration request sent to IANA.
   In the event that a new subtype becomes relevant after a protocol



Cheshire & Krochmal          Standards Track                   [Page 32]

RFC 6763               DNS-Based Service Discovery         February 2013


   specification has been published, this can be recorded by requesting
   that IANA add it to the "notes" field.  For example, vendors of
   network printers advertise their embedded web servers using the
   subtype _printer.  This allows printer management clients to browse
   for only printer-related web servers by browsing for the _printer
   subtype.  While the existence of the _printer subtype of _http._tcp
   is not directly relevant to the HTTP protocol specification, it is
   useful to record this usage in the IANA registry to help avoid
   another community of developers inadvertently using the same subtype
   string for a different purpose.  The namespace of possible subtypes
   is separate for each different service type.  For example, the
   existence of the _printer subtype of _http._tcp does not imply that
   the _printer subtype is defined or has any meaning for any other
   service type.

   When IANA records a Service Name registration, if the new application
   protocol is one that conceptually duplicates existing functionality
   of an older protocol, and the implementers desire the Flagship Naming
   behavior described in Section 8, then the registrant should request
   that IANA record the name of the flagship protocol in the "notes"
   field of the new registration.  For example, the registrations for
   "ipp" and "pdl-datastream" both reference "printer" as the flagship
   name for this family of printing-related protocols.

