Appendix C.  What You See Is What You Get

   Some service discovery protocols decouple the true service identifier
   from the name presented to the user.  The true service identifier
   used by the protocol is an opaque unique identifier, often
   represented using a long string of hexadecimal digits, which should
   never be seen by the typical user.  The name presented to the user is
   merely one of the decorative ephemeral attributes attached to this
   opaque identifier.

   The problem with this approach is that it decouples user perception
   from network reality:

   *  What happens if there are two service instances, with different
      unique ids, but they have inadvertently been given the same user-
      visible name?  If two instances appear in an on-screen list with
      the same name, how does the user know which is which?

   *  Suppose a printer breaks down, and the user replaces it with
      another printer of the same make and model, and configures the new
      printer with the exact same name as the one being replaced:
      "Stuart's Printer".  Now, when the user tries to print, the on-
      screen print dialog tells them that their selected default printer
      is "Stuart's Printer".  When they browse the network to see what
      is there, they see a printer called "Stuart's Printer", yet when
      the user tries to print, they are told that the printer "Stuart's
      Printer" can't be found.  The hidden internal unique identifier
      that the software is trying to find on the network doesn't match
      the hidden internal unique identifier of the new printer, even
      though its apparent "name" and its logical purpose for being there
      are the same.  To remedy this, the user typically has to delete
      the print queue they have created, and then create a new
      (apparently identical) queue for the new printer, so that the new
      queue will contain the right hidden internal unique identifier.
      Having all this hidden information that the user can't see makes
      for a confusing and frustrating user experience, and exposing
      long, ugly hexadecimal strings to the user and forcing them to
      understand what they mean is even worse.

   *  Suppose an existing printer is moved to a new department, and
      given a new name and a new function.  Changing the user-visible
      name of that piece of hardware doesn't change its hidden internal
      unique identifier.  Users who had previously created a print queue




Cheshire & Krochmal          Standards Track                   [Page 40]

RFC 6763               DNS-Based Service Discovery         February 2013


      for that printer will still be accessing the same hardware by its
      unique identifier, even though the logical service that used to be
      offered by that hardware has ceased to exist.

   Solving these problems requires the user or administrator to be aware
   of the supposedly hidden unique identifier, and to set its value
   correctly as hardware is moved around, repurposed, or replaced,
   thereby contradicting the notion that it is a hidden identifier that
   human users never need to deal with.  Requiring the user to
   understand this expert behind-the-scenes knowledge of what is
   *really* going on is just one more burden placed on the user when
   they are trying to diagnose why their computers and network devices
   are not working as expected.

   These anomalies and counterintuitive behaviors can be eliminated by
   maintaining a tight bidirectional one-to-one mapping between what the
   user sees on the screen and what is really happening "behind the
   curtain".  If something is configured incorrectly, then that is
   apparent in the familiar day-to-day user interface that everyone
   understands, not in some little-known, rarely used "expert"
   interface.

   In summary: in DNS-SD the user-visible name is also the primary
   identifier for a service.  If the user-visible name is changed, then
   conceptually the service being offered is a different logical service
   -- even though the hardware offering the service may have stayed the
   same.  If the user-visible name doesn't change, then conceptually the
   service being offered is the same logical service -- even if the
   hardware offering the service is new hardware brought in to replace
   some old equipment.

   There are certainly arguments on both sides of this debate.
   Nonetheless, the designers of any service discovery protocol have to
   make a choice between having the primary identifiers be hidden, or
   having them be visible, and these are the reasons that we chose to
   make them visible.  We're not claiming that there are no
   disadvantages of having primary identifiers be visible.  We
   considered both alternatives, and we believe that the few
   disadvantages of visible identifiers are far outweighed by the many
   problems caused by use of hidden identifiers.











Cheshire & Krochmal          Standards Track                   [Page 41]

RFC 6763               DNS-Based Service Discovery         February 2013


