Appendix D.  Choice of Factory-Default Names

   When a DNS-SD service is advertised using Multicast DNS [RFC6762], if
   there is already another service of the same type advertising with
   the same name then automatic name conflict resolution will occur.  As
   described in the Multicast DNS specification [RFC6762], upon
   detecting a conflict, the service should:

   1.  Automatically select a new name (typically by appending or
       incrementing a digit at the end of the name),
   2.  Try advertising with the new name, and
   3.  Upon success, record the new name in persistent storage.

   This renaming behavior is very important, because it is key to
   providing user-friendly instance names in the out-of-the-box factory-
   default configuration.  Some product developers apparently have not
   realized this, because there are some products today where the
   factory-default name is distinctly unfriendly, containing random-
   looking strings of characters, such as the device's Ethernet address
   in hexadecimal.  This is unnecessary and undesirable, because the
   point of the user-visible name is that it should be friendly and
   meaningful to human users.  If the name is not unique on the local
   network then the protocol will remedy this as necessary.  It is
   ironic that many of the devices with this design mistake are network
   printers, given that these same printers also simultaneously support
   AppleTalk-over-Ethernet, with nice user-friendly default names (and
   automatic conflict detection and renaming).  Some examples of good
   factory-default names are:

      Brother 5070N
      Canon W2200
      HP LaserJet 4600
      Lexmark W840
      Okidata C5300
      Ricoh Aficio CL7100
      Xerox Phaser 6200DX

   To make the case for why adding long, ugly factory-unique serial
   numbers to the end of names is neither necessary nor desirable,
   consider the cases where the user has (a) only one network printer,
   (b) two network printers, and (c) many network printers.

   (a)  In the case where the user has only one network printer,
        a simple name like (to use a vendor-neutral example)
        "Printer" is more user-friendly than an ugly name like
        "Printer_0001E68C74FB".  Appending ugly hexadecimal goop to the
        end of the name to make sure the name is unique is irrelevant to
        a user who only has one printer anyway.



Cheshire & Krochmal          Standards Track                   [Page 42]

RFC 6763               DNS-Based Service Discovery         February 2013


   (b)  In the case where the user gets a second network printer, having
        the new printer detect that the name "Printer" is already in use
        and automatically name itself "Printer (2)" instead, provides a
        good user experience.  For most users, remembering that the old
        printer is "Printer" and the new one is "Printer (2)" is easy
        and intuitive.  Seeing a printer called "Printer_0001E68C74FB"
        and another called "Printer_00306EC3FD1C" is a lot less helpful.

   (c)  In the case of a network with ten network printers, seeing a
        list of ten names all of the form "Printer_xxxxxxxxxxxx" has
        effectively taken what was supposed to be a list of user-
        friendly rich-text names (supporting mixed case, spaces,
        punctuation, non-Roman characters, and other symbols) and turned
        it into just about the worst user interface imaginable: a list
        of incomprehensible random-looking strings of letters and
        digits.  In a network with a lot of printers, it would be
        advisable for the people setting up the printers to take a
        moment to give each one a descriptive name, but in the event
        they don't, presenting the users with a list of sequentially
        numbered printers is a much more desirable default user
        experience than showing a list of raw Ethernet addresses.






























Cheshire & Krochmal          Standards Track                   [Page 43]

RFC 6763               DNS-Based Service Discovery         February 2013


