Appendix E.  Name Encodings in the Domain Name System

   Although the original DNS specifications [RFC1033] [RFC1034]
   [RFC1035] recommend that host names contain only letters, digits, and
   hyphens (because of the limitations of the typing-based user
   interfaces of that era), Service Instance Names are not host names.
   Users generally access a service by selecting it from a list
   presented by a user interface, not by typing in its Service Instance
   Name. "Clarifications to the DNS Specification" [RFC2181] directly
   discusses the subject of allowable character set in Section 11 ("Name
   syntax"), and explicitly states that the traditional letters-digits-
   hyphens rule applies only to conventional host names:

      Occasionally it is assumed that the Domain Name System serves only
      the purpose of mapping Internet host names to data, and mapping
      Internet addresses to host names.  This is not correct, the DNS is
      a general (if somewhat limited) hierarchical database, and can
      store almost any kind of data, for almost any purpose.

      The DNS itself places only one restriction on the particular
      labels that can be used to identify resource records.  That one
      restriction relates to the length of the label and the full name.
      The length of any one label is limited to between 1 and 63 octets.
      A full domain name is limited to 255 octets (including the
      separators).  The zero length full name is defined as representing
      the root of the DNS tree, and is typically written and displayed
      as ".".  Those restrictions aside, any binary string whatever can
      be used as the label of any resource record.  Similarly, any
      binary string can serve as the value of any record that includes a
      domain name as some or all of its value (SOA, NS, MX, PTR, CNAME,
      and any others that may be added).  Implementations of the DNS
      protocols must not place any restrictions on the labels that can
      be used.  In particular, DNS servers must not refuse to serve a
      zone because it contains labels that might not be acceptable to
      some DNS client programs.

   Note that just because DNS-based Service Discovery supports arbitrary
   UTF-8-encoded names doesn't mean that any particular user or
   administrator is obliged to make use of that capability.  Any user is
   free, if they wish, to continue naming their services using only
   letters, digits, and hyphens, with no spaces, capital letters, or
   other punctuation.









Cheshire & Krochmal          Standards Track                   [Page 44]

RFC 6763               DNS-Based Service Discovery         February 2013


