Appendix F.  "Continuous Live Update" Browsing Model

   Of particular concern in the design of DNS-SD, especially when used
   in conjunction with ad hoc Multicast DNS, is the dynamic nature of
   service discovery in a changing network environment.  Other service
   discovery protocols seem to have been designed with an implicit
   unstated assumption that the usage model is:

   (a)  client software calls the service discovery API,
   (b)  service discovery code spends a few seconds getting a list of
        instances available at a particular moment in time, and then
   (c)  client software displays the list for the user to select from.

   Superficially this usage model seems reasonable, but the problem is
   that it's too optimistic.  It only considers the success case, where
   the software immediately finds the service instance the user is
   looking for.

   In the case where the user is looking for (say) a particular printer,
   and that printer is not turned on or not connected, the user first
   has to attempt to remedy the problem, and then has to click a
   "refresh" button to retry the service discovery to find out whether
   they were successful.  Because nothing happens instantaneously in
   networking, and packets can be lost, necessitating some number of
   retransmissions, a service discovery search is not instantaneous and
   typically takes a few seconds.  As a result, a fairly typical user
   experience is:

   (a)  display an empty window,
   (b)  display some animation like a searchlight sweeping back and
        forth for ten seconds, and then
   (c)  at the end of the ten-second search, display a static list
        showing what was discovered.

   Every time the user clicks the "refresh" button they have to endure
   another ten-second wait, and every time the discovered list is
   finally shown at the end of the ten-second wait, it's already
   beginning to get stale and out-of-date the moment it's displayed on
   the screen.

   The service discovery user experience that the DNS-SD designers had
   in mind has some rather different properties:

   1.  Displaying the initial list of discovered services should be
       effectively instantaneous -- i.e., typically 0.1 seconds, not 10
       seconds.





Cheshire & Krochmal          Standards Track                   [Page 45]

RFC 6763               DNS-Based Service Discovery         February 2013


   2.  The list of discovered services should not be getting stale and
       out-of-date from the moment it's displayed.  The list should be
       'live' and should continue to update as new services are
       discovered.  Because of the delays, packet losses, and
       retransmissions inherent in networking, it is to be expected that
       sometimes, after the initial list is displayed showing the
       majority of discovered services, a few remaining stragglers may
       continue to trickle in during the subsequent few seconds.  Even
       after this stable list has been built and displayed, it should
       remain 'live' and should continue to update.  At any future time,
       be it minutes, hours, or even days later, if a new service of the
       desired type is discovered, it should be displayed in the list
       automatically, without the user having to click a "refresh"
       button or take any other explicit action to update the display.

   3.  With users getting in the habit of leaving service discovery
       windows open, and expecting them to show a continuous 'live' view
       of current network reality, this gives us an additional
       requirement: deletion of stale services.  When a service
       discovery list shows just a static snapshot at a moment in time,
       then the situation is simple: either a service was discovered and
       appears in the list, or it was not and does not.  However, when
       our list is live and updates continuously with the discovery of
       new services, then this implies the corollary: when a service
       goes away, it needs to *disappear* from the service discovery
       list.  Otherwise, the service discovery list would simply grow
       monotonically over time, accreting stale data, and would require
       a periodic "refresh" (or complete dismissal and recreation) to
       restore correct display.

   4.  Another consequence of users leaving service discovery windows
       open for extended periods of time is that these windows should
       update not only in response to services coming and going, but
       also in response to changes in configuration and connectivity of
       the client machine itself.  For example, if a user opens a
       service discovery window when the client machine has no network
       connectivity, then the window will typically appear empty, with
       no discovered services.  When the user connects an Ethernet cable
       or joins an 802.11 [IEEEW] wireless network the window should
       then automatically populate with discovered services, without
       requiring any explicit user action.  If the user disconnects the
       Ethernet cable or turns off 802.11 wireless then all the services
       discovered via that network interface should automatically
       disappear.  If the user switches from one 802.11 wireless access
       point to another, the service discovery window should
       automatically update to remove all the services discovered via
       the old wireless access point, and add all the services
       discovered via the new one.



Cheshire & Krochmal          Standards Track                   [Page 46]

RFC 6763               DNS-Based Service Discovery         February 2013


