5.3.  Client-to-Server Masking

   A masked frame MUST have the field frame-masked set to 1, as defined
   in Section 5.2.





Fette & Melnikov             Standards Track                   [Page 32]

RFC 6455                 The WebSocket Protocol            December 2011


   The masking key is contained completely within the frame, as defined
   in Section 5.2 as frame-masking-key.  It is used to mask the "Payload
   data" defined in the same section as frame-payload-data, which
   includes "Extension data" and "Application data".

   The masking key is a 32-bit value chosen at random by the client.
   When preparing a masked frame, the client MUST pick a fresh masking
   key from the set of allowed 32-bit values.  The masking key needs to
   be unpredictable; thus, the masking key MUST be derived from a strong
   source of entropy, and the masking key for a given frame MUST NOT
   make it simple for a server/proxy to predict the masking key for a
   subsequent frame.  The unpredictability of the masking key is
   essential to prevent authors of malicious applications from selecting
   the bytes that appear on the wire.  RFC 4086 [RFC4086] discusses what
   entails a suitable source of entropy for security-sensitive
   applications.

   The masking does not affect the length of the "Payload data".  To
   convert masked data into unmasked data, or vice versa, the following
   algorithm is applied.  The same algorithm applies regardless of the
   direction of the translation, e.g., the same steps are applied to
   mask the data as to unmask the data.

   Octet i of the transformed data ("transformed-octet-i") is the XOR of
   octet i of the original data ("original-octet-i") with octet at index
   i modulo 4 of the masking key ("masking-key-octet-j"):

     j                   = i MOD 4
     transformed-octet-i = original-octet-i XOR masking-key-octet-j

   The payload length, indicated in the framing as frame-payload-length,
   does NOT include the length of the masking key.  It is the length of
   the "Payload data", e.g., the number of bytes following the masking
   key.

