5.4.  Fragmentation

   The primary purpose of fragmentation is to allow sending a message
   that is of unknown size when the message is started without having to
   buffer that message.  If messages couldn't be fragmented, then an
   endpoint would have to buffer the entire message so its length could
   be counted before the first byte is sent.  With fragmentation, a
   server or intermediary may choose a reasonable size buffer and, when
   the buffer is full, write a fragment to the network.

   A secondary use-case for fragmentation is for multiplexing, where it
   is not desirable for a large message on one logical channel to
   monopolize the output channel, so the multiplexing needs to be free



Fette & Melnikov             Standards Track                   [Page 33]

RFC 6455                 The WebSocket Protocol            December 2011


   to split the message into smaller fragments to better share the
   output channel.  (Note that the multiplexing extension is not
   described in this document.)

   Unless specified otherwise by an extension, frames have no semantic
   meaning.  An intermediary might coalesce and/or split frames, if no
   extensions were negotiated by the client and the server or if some
   extensions were negotiated, but the intermediary understood all the
   extensions negotiated and knows how to coalesce and/or split frames
   in the presence of these extensions.  One implication of this is that
   in absence of extensions, senders and receivers must not depend on
   the presence of specific frame boundaries.

   The following rules apply to fragmentation:

   o  An unfragmented message consists of a single frame with the FIN
      bit set (Section 5.2) and an opcode other than 0.

   o  A fragmented message consists of a single frame with the FIN bit
      clear and an opcode other than 0, followed by zero or more frames
      with the FIN bit clear and the opcode set to 0, and terminated by
      a single frame with the FIN bit set and an opcode of 0.  A
      fragmented message is conceptually equivalent to a single larger
      message whose payload is equal to the concatenation of the
      payloads of the fragments in order; however, in the presence of
      extensions, this may not hold true as the extension defines the
      interpretation of the "Extension data" present.  For instance,
      "Extension data" may only be present at the beginning of the first
      fragment and apply to subsequent fragments, or there may be
      "Extension data" present in each of the fragments that applies
      only to that particular fragment.  In the absence of "Extension
      data", the following example demonstrates how fragmentation works.

      EXAMPLE: For a text message sent as three fragments, the first
      fragment would have an opcode of 0x1 and a FIN bit clear, the
      second fragment would have an opcode of 0x0 and a FIN bit clear,
      and the third fragment would have an opcode of 0x0 and a FIN bit
      that is set.

   o  Control frames (see Section 5.5) MAY be injected in the middle of
      a fragmented message.  Control frames themselves MUST NOT be
      fragmented.

   o  Message fragments MUST be delivered to the recipient in the order
      sent by the sender.






Fette & Melnikov             Standards Track                   [Page 34]

RFC 6455                 The WebSocket Protocol            December 2011


   o  The fragments of one message MUST NOT be interleaved between the
      fragments of another message unless an extension has been
      negotiated that can interpret the interleaving.

   o  An endpoint MUST be capable of handling control frames in the
      middle of a fragmented message.

   o  A sender MAY create fragments of any size for non-control
      messages.

   o  Clients and servers MUST support receiving both fragmented and
      unfragmented messages.

   o  As control frames cannot be fragmented, an intermediary MUST NOT
      attempt to change the fragmentation of a control frame.

   o  An intermediary MUST NOT change the fragmentation of a message if
      any reserved bit values are used and the meaning of these values
      is not known to the intermediary.

   o  An intermediary MUST NOT change the fragmentation of any message
      in the context of a connection where extensions have been
      negotiated and the intermediary is not aware of the semantics of
      the negotiated extensions.  Similarly, an intermediary that didn't
      see the WebSocket handshake (and wasn't notified about its
      content) that resulted in a WebSocket connection MUST NOT change
      the fragmentation of any message of such connection.

   o  As a consequence of these rules, all fragments of a message are of
      the same type, as set by the first fragment's opcode.  Since
      control frames cannot be fragmented, the type for all fragments in
      a message MUST be either text, binary, or one of the reserved
      opcodes.

   NOTE: If control frames could not be interjected, the latency of a
   ping, for example, would be very long if behind a large message.
   Hence, the requirement of handling control frames in the middle of a
   fragmented message.

   IMPLEMENTATION NOTE: In the absence of any extension, a receiver
   doesn't have to buffer the whole frame in order to process it.  For
   example, if a streaming API is used, a part of a frame can be
   delivered to the application.  However, note that this assumption
   might not hold true for all future WebSocket extensions.







Fette & Melnikov             Standards Track                   [Page 35]

RFC 6455                 The WebSocket Protocol            December 2011


