13.  Acknowledgements

   Special thanks are due to Ian Hickson, who was the original author
   and editor of this protocol.  The initial design of this
   specification benefitted from the participation of many people in the
   WHATWG and WHATWG mailing list.  Contributions to that specification
   are not tracked by section, but a list of all who contributed to that
   specification is given in the WHATWG HTML specification at
   http://whatwg.org/html5.

   Special thanks also to John Tamplin for providing a significant
   amount of text for the "Data Framing" section of this specification.

   Special thanks also to Adam Barth for providing a significant amount
   of text and background research for the "Data Masking" section of
   this specification.






Fette & Melnikov             Standards Track                   [Page 67]

RFC 6455                 The WebSocket Protocol            December 2011


   Special thanks to Lisa Dusseault for the Apps Area review (and for
   helping to start this work), Richard Barnes for the Gen-Art review,
   and Magnus Westerlund for the Transport Area Review.  Special thanks
   to HYBI WG past and present WG chairs who tirelessly worked behind
   the scene to move this work toward completion: Joe Hildebrand,
   Salvatore Loreto, and Gabriel Montenegro.  And last but not least,
   special thank you to the responsible Area Director Peter Saint-Andre.

   Thank you to the following people who participated in discussions on
   the HYBI WG mailing list and contributed ideas and/or provided
   detailed reviews (the list is likely to be incomplete): Greg Wilkins,
   John Tamplin, Willy Tarreau, Maciej Stachowiak, Jamie Lokier, Scott
   Ferguson, Bjoern Hoehrmann, Julian Reschke, Dave Cridland, Andy
   Green, Eric Rescorla, Inaki Baz Castillo, Martin Thomson, Roberto
   Peon, Patrick McManus, Zhong Yu, Bruce Atherton, Takeshi Yoshino,
   Martin J. Duerst, James Graham, Simon Pieters, Roy T. Fielding,
   Mykyta Yevstifeyev, Len Holgate, Paul Colomiets, Piotr Kulaga, Brian
   Raymor, Jan Koehler, Joonas Lehtolahti, Sylvain Hellegouarch, Stephen
   Farrell, Sean Turner, Pete Resnick, Peter Thorson, Joe Mason, John
   Fallows, and Alexander Philippou.  Note that people listed above
   didn't necessarily endorse the end result of this work.

