5.5.1.  Close

   The Close frame contains an opcode of 0x8.

   The Close frame MAY contain a body (the "Application data" portion of
   the frame) that indicates a reason for closing, such as an endpoint
   shutting down, an endpoint having received a frame too large, or an
   endpoint having received a frame that does not conform to the format
   expected by the endpoint.  If there is a body, the first two bytes of
   the body MUST be a 2-byte unsigned integer (in network byte order)
   representing a status code with value /code/ defined in Section 7.4.
   Following the 2-byte integer, the body MAY contain UTF-8-encoded data
   with value /reason/, the interpretation of which is not defined by
   this specification.  This data is not necessarily human readable but
   may be useful for debugging or passing information relevant to the
   script that opened the connection.  As the data is not guaranteed to
   be human readable, clients MUST NOT show it to end users.

   Close frames sent from client to server must be masked as per
   Section 5.3.

   The application MUST NOT send any more data frames after sending a
   Close frame.

   If an endpoint receives a Close frame and did not previously send a
   Close frame, the endpoint MUST send a Close frame in response.  (When
   sending a Close frame in response, the endpoint typically echos the
   status code it received.)  It SHOULD do so as soon as practical.  An
   endpoint MAY delay sending a Close frame until its current message is
   sent (for instance, if the majority of a fragmented message is
   already sent, an endpoint MAY send the remaining fragments before
   sending a Close frame).  However, there is no guarantee that the
   endpoint that has already sent a Close frame will continue to process
   data.



Fette & Melnikov             Standards Track                   [Page 36]

RFC 6455                 The WebSocket Protocol            December 2011


   After both sending and receiving a Close message, an endpoint
   considers the WebSocket connection closed and MUST close the
   underlying TCP connection.  The server MUST close the underlying TCP
   connection immediately; the client SHOULD wait for the server to
   close the connection but MAY close the connection at any time after
   sending and receiving a Close message, e.g., if it has not received a
   TCP Close from the server in a reasonable time period.

   If a client and server both send a Close message at the same time,
   both endpoints will have sent and received a Close message and should
   consider the WebSocket connection closed and close the underlying TCP
   connection.

