1.1 About Quagga
================

Today, TCP/IP networks are covering all of the world.  The Internet has
been deployed in many countries, companies, and to the home.  When you
connect to the Internet your packet will pass many routers which have
TCP/IP routing functionality.

   A system with Quagga installed acts as a dedicated router.  With
Quagga, your machine exchanges routing information with other routers
using routing protocols.  Quagga uses this information to update the
kernel routing table so that the right data goes to the right place.
You can dynamically change the configuration and you may view routing
table information from the Quagga terminal interface.

   Adding to routing protocol support, Quagga can setup interface's
flags, interface's address, static routes and so on.  If you have a
small network, or a stub network, or xDSL connection, configuring the
Quagga routing software is very easy.  The only thing you have to do is
to set up the interfaces and put a few commands about static routes
and/or default routes.  If the network is rather large, or if the
network structure changes frequently, you will want to take advantage of
Quagga's dynamic routing protocol support for protocols such as RIP,
OSPF, IS-IS or BGP.

   Traditionally, UNIX based router configuration is done by 'ifconfig'
and 'route' commands.  Status of routing table is displayed by 'netstat'
utility.  Almost of these commands work only if the user has root
privileges.  Quagga has a different system administration method.  There
are two user modes in Quagga.  One is normal mode, the other is enable
mode.  Normal mode user can only view system status, enable mode user
can change system configuration.  This UNIX account independent feature
will be great help to the router administrator.

   Currently, Quagga supports common unicast routing protocols, that is
BGP, OSPF, RIP and IS-IS. Upcoming for MPLS support, an implementation
of LDP is currently being prepared for merging.  Implementations of BFD
and PIM-SSM (IPv4) also exist, but are not actively being worked on.

   The ultimate goal of the Quagga project is making a productive,
quality, free TCP/IP routing software package.

File: quagga.info,  Node: System Architecture,  Next: Supported Platforms,  Prev: About Quagga,  Up: Overview

