3.1 Config Commands
===================

* Menu:

* Basic Config Commands::       Some of the generic config commands
* Sample Config File::          An example config file

In a config file, you can write the debugging options, a vty's password,
routing daemon configurations, a log file name, and so forth.  This
information forms the initial command set for a routing beast as it is
starting.

   Config files are generally found in:

     '/etc/quagga/*.conf'

   Each of the daemons has its own config file.  For example, zebra's
default config file name is:

     '/etc/quagga/zebra.conf'

   The daemon name plus '.conf' is the default config file name.  You
can specify a config file using the '-f' or '--config-file' options when
starting the daemon.

File: quagga.info,  Node: Basic Config Commands,  Next: Sample Config File,  Up: Config Commands

3.1.1 Basic Config Commands
---------------------------

 -- Command: hostname HOSTNAME
     Set hostname of the router.

 -- Command: password PASSWORD
     Set password for vty interface.  If there is no password, a vty
     won't accept connections.

 -- Command: enable password PASSWORD
     Set enable password.

 -- Command: log trap LEVEL
 -- Command: no log trap
     These commands are deprecated and are present only for historical
     compatibility.  The log trap command sets the current logging level
     for all enabled logging destinations, and it sets the default for
     all future logging commands that do not specify a level.  The
     normal default logging level is debugging.  The 'no' form of the
     command resets the default level for future logging commands to
     debugging, but it does not change the logging level of existing
     logging destinations.

 -- Command: log stdout
 -- Command: log stdout LEVEL
 -- Command: no log stdout
     Enable logging output to stdout.  If the optional second argument
     specifying the logging level is not present, the default logging
     level (typically debugging, but can be changed using the deprecated
     'log trap' command) will be used.  The 'no' form of the command
     disables logging to stdout.  The 'level' argument must have one of
     these values: emergencies, alerts, critical, errors, warnings,
     notifications, informational, or debugging.  Note that the existing
     code logs its most important messages with severity 'errors'.

 -- Command: log file FILENAME
 -- Command: log file FILENAME LEVEL
 -- Command: no log file
     If you want to log into a file, please specify 'filename' as in
     this example:
          log file /var/log/quagga/bgpd.log informational
     If the optional second argument specifying the logging level is not
     present, the default logging level (typically debugging, but can be
     changed using the deprecated 'log trap' command) will be used.  The
     'no' form of the command disables logging to a file.

     Note: if you do not configure any file logging, and a daemon
     crashes due to a signal or an assertion failure, it will attempt to
     save the crash information in a file named /var/tmp/quagga.<daemon
     name>.crashlog.  For security reasons, this will not happen if the
     file exists already, so it is important to delete the file after
     reporting the crash information.

 -- Command: log syslog
 -- Command: log syslog LEVEL
 -- Command: no log syslog
     Enable logging output to syslog.  If the optional second argument
     specifying the logging level is not present, the default logging
     level (typically debugging, but can be changed using the deprecated
     'log trap' command) will be used.  The 'no' form of the command
     disables logging to syslog.

 -- Command: log monitor
 -- Command: log monitor LEVEL
 -- Command: no log monitor
     Enable logging output to vty terminals that have enabled logging
     using the 'terminal monitor' command.  By default, monitor logging
     is enabled at the debugging level, but this command (or the
     deprecated 'log trap' command) can be used to change the monitor
     logging level.  If the optional second argument specifying the
     logging level is not present, the default logging level (typically
     debugging, but can be changed using the deprecated 'log trap'
     command) will be used.  The 'no' form of the command disables
     logging to terminal monitors.

 -- Command: log facility FACILITY
 -- Command: no log facility
     This command changes the facility used in syslog messages.  The
     default facility is 'daemon'.  The 'no' form of the command resets
     the facility to the default 'daemon' facility.

 -- Command: log record-priority
 -- Command: no log record-priority
     To include the severity in all messages logged to a file, to
     stdout, or to a terminal monitor (i.e.  anything except syslog),
     use the 'log record-priority' global configuration command.  To
     disable this option, use the 'no' form of the command.  By default,
     the severity level is not included in logged messages.  Note: some
     versions of syslogd (including Solaris) can be configured to
     include the facility and level in the messages emitted.

 -- Command: log timestamp precision <0-6>
 -- Command: no log timestamp precision
     This command sets the precision of log message timestamps to the
     given number of digits after the decimal point.  Currently, the
     value must be in the range 0 to 6 (i.e.  the maximum precision is
     microseconds).  To restore the default behavior (1-second
     accuracy), use the 'no' form of the command, or set the precision
     explicitly to 0.

          log timestamp precision 3

     In this example, the precision is set to provide timestamps with
     millisecond accuracy.

 -- Command: log commands
     This command enables the logging of all commands typed by a user to
     all enabled log destinations.  The note that logging includes full
     command lines, including passwords.  Once set, command logging can
     only be turned off by restarting the daemon.

 -- Command: service password-encryption
     Encrypt password.

 -- Command: service advanced-vty
     Enable advanced mode VTY.

 -- Command: service terminal-length <0-512>
     Set system wide line configuration.  This configuration command
     applies to all VTY interfaces.

 -- Command: line vty
     Enter vty configuration mode.

 -- Command: banner motd default
     Set default motd string.

 -- Command: no banner motd
     No motd banner string will be printed.

 -- Line Command: exec-timeout MINUTE
 -- Line Command: exec-timeout MINUTE SECOND
     Set VTY connection timeout value.  When only one argument is
     specified it is used for timeout value in minutes.  Optional second
     argument is used for timeout value in seconds.  Default timeout
     value is 10 minutes.  When timeout value is zero, it means no
     timeout.

 -- Line Command: no exec-timeout
     Do not perform timeout at all.  This command is as same as
     'exec-timeout 0 0'.

 -- Line Command: access-class ACCESS-LIST
     Restrict vty connections with an access list.

File: quagga.info,  Node: Sample Config File,  Prev: Basic Config Commands,  Up: Config Commands

3.1.2 Sample Config File
------------------------

Below is a sample configuration file for the zebra daemon.

     !
     ! Zebra configuration file
     !
     hostname Router
     password zebra
     enable password zebra
     !
     log stdout
     !
     !

   '!'  and '#' are comment characters.  If the first character of the
word is one of the comment characters then from the rest of the line
forward will be ignored as a comment.

     password zebra!password

   If a comment character is not the first character of the word, it's a
normal character.  So in the above example '!'  will not be regarded as
a comment and the password is set to 'zebra!password'.

File: quagga.info,  Node: Terminal Mode Commands,  Next: Common Invocation Options,  Prev: Config Commands,  Up: Basic commands

