5.2 RIP Configuration
=====================

 -- Command: router rip
     The 'router rip' command is necessary to enable RIP. To disable
     RIP, use the 'no router rip' command.  RIP must be enabled before
     carrying out any of the RIP commands.

 -- Command: no router rip
     Disable RIP.

 -- RIP Command: network NETWORK
 -- RIP Command: no network NETWORK
     Set the RIP enable interface by NETWORK.  The interfaces which have
     addresses matching with NETWORK are enabled.

     This group of commands either enables or disables RIP interfaces
     between certain numbers of a specified network address.  For
     example, if the network for 10.0.0.0/24 is RIP enabled, this would
     result in all the addresses from 10.0.0.0 to 10.0.0.255 being
     enabled for RIP. The 'no network' command will disable RIP for the
     specified network.

 -- RIP Command: network IFNAME
 -- RIP Command: no network IFNAME
     Set a RIP enabled interface by IFNAME.  Both the sending and
     receiving of RIP packets will be enabled on the port specified in
     the 'network ifname' command.  The 'no network ifname' command will
     disable RIP on the specified interface.

 -- RIP Command: neighbor A.B.C.D
 -- RIP Command: no neighbor A.B.C.D
     Specify RIP neighbor.  When a neighbor doesn't understand
     multicast, this command is used to specify neighbors.  In some
     cases, not all routers will be able to understand multicasting,
     where packets are sent to a network or a group of addresses.  In a
     situation where a neighbor cannot process multicast packets, it is
     necessary to establish a direct link between routers.  The neighbor
     command allows the network administrator to specify a router as a
     RIP neighbor.  The 'no neighbor a.b.c.d' command will disable the
     RIP neighbor.

   Below is very simple RIP configuration.  Interface 'eth0' and
interface which address match to '10.0.0.0/8' are RIP enabled.

     !
     router rip
      network 10.0.0.0/8
      network eth0
     !

   Passive interface

 -- RIP command: passive-interface (IFNAME|default)
 -- RIP command: no passive-interface IFNAME
     This command sets the specified interface to passive mode.  On
     passive mode interface, all receiving packets are processed as
     normal and ripd does not send either multicast or unicast RIP
     packets except to RIP neighbors specified with 'neighbor' command.
     The interface may be specified as DEFAULT to make ripd default to
     passive on all interfaces.

     The default is to be passive on all interfaces.

   RIP split-horizon

 -- Interface command: ip split-horizon
 -- Interface command: no ip split-horizon
     Control split-horizon on the interface.  Default is 'ip
     split-horizon'.  If you don't perform split-horizon on the
     interface, please specify 'no ip split-horizon'.

File: quagga.info,  Node: RIP Version Control,  Next: How to Announce RIP route,  Prev: RIP Configuration,  Up: RIP

