7.3 OSPF router
===============

To start OSPF process you have to specify the OSPF router.  As of this
writing, 'ospfd' does not support multiple OSPF processes.

 -- Command: router ospf
 -- Command: no router ospf
     Enable or disable the OSPF process.  'ospfd' does not yet support
     multiple OSPF processes.  So you can not specify an OSPF process
     number.

 -- OSPF Command: ospf router-id A.B.C.D
 -- OSPF Command: no ospf router-id
     This sets the router-ID of the OSPF process.  The router-ID may be
     an IP address of the router, but need not be - it can be any
     arbitrary 32bit number.  However it MUST be unique within the
     entire OSPF domain to the OSPF speaker - bad things will happen if
     multiple OSPF speakers are configured with the same router-ID! If
     one is not specified then 'ospfd' will obtain a router-ID
     automatically from 'zebra'.

 -- OSPF Command: ospf abr-type TYPE
 -- OSPF Command: no ospf abr-type TYPE
     TYPE can be cisco|ibm|shortcut|standard.  The "Cisco" and "IBM"
     types are equivalent.

     The OSPF standard for ABR behaviour does not allow an ABR to
     consider routes through non-backbone areas when its links to the
     backbone are down, even when there are other ABRs in attached
     non-backbone areas which still can reach the backbone - this
     restriction exists primarily to ensure routing-loops are avoided.

     With the "Cisco" or "IBM" ABR type, the default in this release of
     Quagga, this restriction is lifted, allowing an ABR to consider
     summaries learnt from other ABRs through non-backbone areas, and
     hence route via non-backbone areas as a last resort when, and only
     when, backbone links are down.

     Note that areas with fully-adjacent virtual-links are considered to
     be "transit capable" and can always be used to route backbone
     traffic, and hence are unaffected by this setting (*note OSPF
     virtual-link::).

     More information regarding the behaviour controlled by this command
     can be found in 'RFC 3509, Alternative Implementations of OSPF Area
     Border Routers', and 'draft-ietf-ospf-shortcut-abr-02.txt'.

     Quote: "Though the definition of the ABR (Area Border Router) in
     the OSPF specification does not require a router with multiple
     attached areas to have a backbone connection, it is actually
     necessary to provide successful routing to the inter-area and
     external destinations.  If this requirement is not met, all traffic
     destined for the areas not connected to such an ABR or out of the
     OSPF domain, is dropped.  This document describes alternative ABR
     behaviors implemented in Cisco and IBM routers."

 -- OSPF Command: ospf rfc1583compatibility
 -- OSPF Command: no ospf rfc1583compatibility
     'RFC2328', the sucessor to 'RFC1583', suggests according to section
     G.2 (changes) in section 16.4 a change to the path preference
     algorithm that prevents possible routing loops that were possible
     in the old version of OSPFv2.  More specifically it demands that
     inter-area paths and intra-area backbone path are now of equal
     preference but still both preferred to external paths.

     This command should NOT be set normally.

 -- OSPF Command: log-adjacency-changes [detail]
 -- OSPF Command: no log-adjacency-changes [detail]
     Configures ospfd to log changes in adjacency.  With the optional
     detail argument, all changes in adjacency status are shown.
     Without detail, only changes to full or regressions are shown.

 -- OSPF Command: passive-interface INTERFACE
 -- OSPF Command: no passive-interface INTERFACE
     Do not speak OSPF interface on the given interface, but do
     advertise the interface as a stub link in the router-LSA (Link
     State Advertisement) for this router.  This allows one to advertise
     addresses on such connected interfaces without having to originate
     AS-External/Type-5 LSAs (which have global flooding scope) - as
     would occur if connected addresses were redistributed into OSPF
     (*note Redistribute routes to OSPF::).  This is the only way to
     advertise non-OSPF links into stub areas.

 -- OSPF Command: timers throttle spf DELAY INITIAL-HOLDTIME
          MAX-HOLDTIME
 -- OSPF Command: no timers throttle spf
     This command sets the initial DELAY, the INITIAL-HOLDTIME and the
     MAXIMUM-HOLDTIME between when SPF is calculated and the event which
     triggered the calculation.  The times are specified in milliseconds
     and must be in the range of 0 to 600000 milliseconds.

     The DELAY specifies the minimum amount of time to delay SPF
     calculation (hence it affects how long SPF calculation is delayed
     after an event which occurs outside of the holdtime of any previous
     SPF calculation, and also serves as a minimum holdtime).

     Consecutive SPF calculations will always be seperated by at least
     'hold-time' milliseconds.  The hold-time is adaptive and initially
     is set to the INITIAL-HOLDTIME configured with the above command.
     Events which occur within the holdtime of the previous SPF
     calculation will cause the holdtime to be increased by
     INITIAL-HOLDTIME, bounded by the MAXIMUM-HOLDTIME configured with
     this command.  If the adaptive hold-time elapses without any
     SPF-triggering event occuring then the current holdtime is reset to
     the INITIAL-HOLDTIME.  The current holdtime can be viewed with
     *note show ip ospf::, where it is expressed as a multiplier of the
     INITIAL-HOLDTIME.

          router ospf
           timers throttle spf 200 400 10000

     In this example, the DELAY is set to 200ms, the INITIAL HOLDTIME is
     set to 400ms and the MAXIMUM HOLDTIME to 10s.  Hence there will
     always be at least 200ms between an event which requires SPF
     calculation and the actual SPF calculation.  Further consecutive
     SPF calculations will always be seperated by between 400ms to 10s,
     the hold-time increasing by 400ms each time an SPF-triggering event
     occurs within the hold-time of the previous SPF calculation.

     This command supercedes the 'timers spf' command in previous Quagga
     releases.

 -- OSPF Command: max-metric router-lsa [on-startup|on-shutdown]
          <5-86400>
 -- OSPF Command: max-metric router-lsa administrative
 -- OSPF Command: no max-metric router-lsa
          [on-startup|on-shutdown|administrative]
     This enables 'RFC3137, OSPF Stub Router Advertisement' support,
     where the OSPF process describes its transit links in its
     router-LSA as having infinite distance so that other routers will
     avoid calculating transit paths through the router while still
     being able to reach networks through the router.

     This support may be enabled administratively (and indefinitely) or
     conditionally.  Conditional enabling of max-metric router-lsas can
     be for a period of seconds after startup and/or for a period of
     seconds prior to shutdown.

     Enabling this for a period after startup allows OSPF to converge
     fully first without affecting any existing routes used by other
     routers, while still allowing any connected stub links and/or
     redistributed routes to be reachable.  Enabling this for a period
     of time in advance of shutdown allows the router to gracefully
     excuse itself from the OSPF domain.

     Enabling this feature administratively allows for administrative
     intervention for whatever reason, for an indefinite period of time.
     Note that if the configuration is written to file, this
     administrative form of the stub-router command will also be written
     to file.  If 'ospfd' is restarted later, the command will then take
     effect until manually deconfigured.

     Configured state of this feature as well as current status, such as
     the number of second remaining till on-startup or on-shutdown ends,
     can be viewed with the *note show ip ospf:: command.

 -- OSPF Command: auto-cost reference-bandwidth <1-4294967>
 -- OSPF Command: no auto-cost reference-bandwidth
     This sets the reference bandwidth for cost calculations, where this
     bandwidth is considered equivalent to an OSPF cost of 1, specified
     in Mbits/s.  The default is 100Mbit/s (i.e.  a link of bandwidth
     100Mbit/s or higher will have a cost of 1.  Cost of lower bandwidth
     links will be scaled with reference to this cost).

     This configuration setting MUST be consistent across all routers
     within the OSPF domain.

 -- OSPF Command: network A.B.C.D/M area A.B.C.D
 -- OSPF Command: network A.B.C.D/M area <0-4294967295>
 -- OSPF Command: no network A.B.C.D/M area A.B.C.D
 -- OSPF Command: no network A.B.C.D/M area <0-4294967295>
     This command specifies the OSPF enabled interface(s).  If the
     interface has an address from range 192.168.1.0/24 then the command
     below enables ospf on this interface so router can provide network
     information to the other ospf routers via this interface.

          router ospf
           network 192.168.1.0/24 area 0.0.0.0

     Prefix length in interface must be equal or bigger (ie.  smaller
     network) than prefix length in network statement.  For example
     statement above doesn't enable ospf on interface with address
     192.168.1.1/23, but it does on interface with address
     192.168.1.129/25.

     Note that the behavior when there is a peer address defined on an
     interface changed after release 0.99.7.  Currently, if a peer
     prefix has been configured, then we test whether the prefix in the
     network command contains the destination prefix.  Otherwise, we
     test whether the network command prefix contains the local address
     prefix of the interface.

     In some cases it may be more convenient to enable OSPF on a per
     interface/subnet basis (*note OSPF ip ospf area command::).

File: quagga.info,  Node: OSPF area,  Next: OSPF interface,  Prev: OSPF router,  Up: OSPFv2

