7.5 OSPF interface
==================

 -- Interface Command: ip ospf area AREA [ADDR]
 -- Interface Command: no ip ospf area [ADDR]

     Enable OSPF on the interface, optionally restricted to just the IP
     address given by ADDR, putting it in the AREA area.  Per interface
     area settings take precedence to network commands (*note OSPF
     network command::).

     If you have a lot of interfaces, and/or a lot of subnets, then
     enabling OSPF via this command may result in a slight performance
     improvement.

 -- Interface Command: ip ospf authentication-key AUTH_KEY
 -- Interface Command: no ip ospf authentication-key
     Set OSPF authentication key to a simple password.  After setting
     AUTH_KEY, all OSPF packets are authenticated.  AUTH_KEY has length
     up to 8 chars.

     Simple text password authentication is insecure and deprecated in
     favour of MD5 HMAC authentication (*note ip ospf authentication
     message-digest::).

 -- Interface Command: ip ospf authentication message-digest
     Specify that MD5 HMAC authentication must be used on this
     interface.  MD5 keying material must also be configured (*note ip
     ospf message-digest-key::).  Overrides any authentication enabled
     on a per-area basis (*note area authentication message-digest::).

     Note that OSPF MD5 authentication requires that time never go
     backwards (correct time is NOT important, only that it never goes
     backwards), even across resets, if ospfd is to be able to promptly
     reestabish adjacencies with its neighbours after restarts/reboots.
     The host should have system time be set at boot from an external or
     non-volatile source (eg battery backed clock, NTP, etc.)  or else
     the system clock should be periodically saved to non-volative
     storage and restored at boot if MD5 authentication is to be
     expected to work reliably.

 -- Interface Command: ip ospf message-digest-key KEYID md5 KEY
 -- Interface Command: no ip ospf message-digest-key
     Set OSPF authentication key to a cryptographic password.  The
     cryptographic algorithm is MD5.

     KEYID identifies secret key used to create the message digest.
     This ID is part of the protocol and must be consistent across
     routers on a link.

     KEY is the actual message digest key, of up to 16 chars (larger
     strings will be truncated), and is associated with the given KEYID.

 -- Interface Command: ip ospf cost <1-65535>
 -- Interface Command: no ip ospf cost
     Set link cost for the specified interface.  The cost value is set
     to router-LSA's metric field and used for SPF calculation.

 -- Interface Command: ip ospf dead-interval <1-65535>
 -- Interface Command: ip ospf dead-interval minimal hello-multiplier
          <2-20>
 -- Interface Command: no ip ospf dead-interval
     Set number of seconds for RouterDeadInterval timer value used for
     Wait Timer and Inactivity Timer.  This value must be the same for
     all routers attached to a common network.  The default value is 40
     seconds.

     If 'minimal' is specified instead, then the dead-interval is set to
     1 second and one must specify a hello-multiplier.  The
     hello-multiplier specifies how many Hellos to send per second, from
     2 (every 500ms) to 20 (every 50ms).  Thus one can have 1s
     convergence time for OSPF. If this form is specified, then the
     hello-interval advertised in Hello packets is set to 0 and the
     hello-interval on received Hello packets is not checked, thus the
     hello-multiplier need NOT be the same across multiple routers on a
     common link.

 -- Interface Command: ip ospf hello-interval <1-65535>
 -- Interface Command: no ip ospf hello-interval
     Set number of seconds for HelloInterval timer value.  Setting this
     value, Hello packet will be sent every timer value seconds on the
     specified interface.  This value must be the same for all routers
     attached to a common network.  The default value is 10 seconds.

     This command has no effect if *note ip ospf dead-interval minimal::
     is also specified for the interface.

 -- Interface Command: ip ospf network
          (broadcast|non-broadcast|point-to-multipoint|point-to-point)
 -- Interface Command: no ip ospf network
     Set explicitly network type for specifed interface.

 -- Interface Command: ip ospf priority <0-255>
 -- Interface Command: no ip ospf priority
     Set RouterPriority integer value.  The router with the highest
     priority will be more eligible to become Designated Router.
     Setting the value to 0, makes the router ineligible to become
     Designated Router.  The default value is 1.

 -- Interface Command: ip ospf retransmit-interval <1-65535>
 -- Interface Command: no ip ospf retransmit interval
     Set number of seconds for RxmtInterval timer value.  This value is
     used when retransmitting Database Description and Link State
     Request packets.  The default value is 5 seconds.

 -- Interface Command: ip ospf transmit-delay
 -- Interface Command: no ip ospf transmit-delay
     Set number of seconds for InfTransDelay value.  LSAs' age should be
     incremented by this value when transmitting.  The default value is
     1 seconds.

File: quagga.info,  Node: Redistribute routes to OSPF,  Next: Showing OSPF information,  Prev: OSPF interface,  Up: OSPFv2

