11.2 BGP router
===============

First of all you must configure BGP router with 'router bgp' command.
To configure BGP router, you need AS number.  AS number is an
identification of autonomous system.  BGP protocol uses the AS number
for detecting whether the BGP connection is internal one or external
one.

 -- Command: router bgp ASN
     Enable a BGP protocol process with the specified ASN.  After this
     statement you can input any 'BGP Commands'.  You can not create
     different BGP process under different ASN without specifying
     'multiple-instance' (*note Multiple instance::).

 -- Command: no router bgp ASN
     Destroy a BGP protocol process with the specified ASN.

 -- BGP: bgp router-id A.B.C.D
     This command specifies the router-ID. If 'bgpd' connects to 'zebra'
     it gets interface and address information.  In that case default
     router ID value is selected as the largest IP Address of the
     interfaces.  When 'router zebra' is not enabled 'bgpd' can't get
     interface information so 'router-id' is set to 0.0.0.0.  So please
     set router-id by hand.

* Menu:

* BGP distance::                
* BGP decision process::        
* BGP route flap dampening::      

File: quagga.info,  Node: BGP distance,  Next: BGP decision process,  Up: BGP router

11.2.1 BGP distance
-------------------

 -- BGP: distance bgp <1-255> <1-255> <1-255>
     This command change distance value of BGP. Each argument is
     distance value for external routes, internal routes and local
     routes.

     To have this command applied to existing routes requires a hard
     clear.

 -- BGP: distance <1-255> A.B.C.D/M
 -- BGP: distance <1-255> A.B.C.D/M WORD
     This command set distance value to

File: quagga.info,  Node: BGP decision process,  Next: BGP route flap dampening,  Prev: BGP distance,  Up: BGP router

11.2.2 BGP decision process
---------------------------

The decision process Quagga BGP uses to select routes is as follows:

1. Weight check
     prefer higher local weight routes to lower routes.

2. Local preference check
     prefer higher local preference routes to lower.

3. Local route check
     Prefer local routes (statics, aggregates, redistributed) to
     received routes.

4. AS path length check
     Prefer shortest hop-count AS_PATHs.

5. Origin check
     Prefer the lowest origin type route.  That is, prefer IGP origin
     routes to EGP, to Incomplete routes.

6. MED check
     Where routes with a MED were received from the same AS, prefer the
     route with the lowest MED. *Note BGP MED::.

7. External check
     Prefer the route received from an external, eBGP peer over routes
     received from other types of peers.

8. IGP cost check
     Prefer the route with the lower IGP cost.

9. Multi-path check
     If multi-pathing is enabled, then check whether the routes not yet
     distinguished in preference may be considered equal.  If *note bgp
     bestpath as-path multipath-relax:: is set, all such routes are
     considered equal, otherwise routes received via iBGP with identical
     AS_PATHs or routes received from eBGP neighbours in the same AS are
     considered equal.

10 Already-selected external check

     Where both routes were received from eBGP peers, then prefer the
     route which is already selected.  Note that this check is not
     applied if *note bgp bestpath compare-routerid:: is configured.
     This check can prevent some cases of oscillation.

11. Router-ID check
     Prefer the route with the lowest router-ID. If the route has an
     ORIGINATOR_ID attribute, through iBGP reflection, then that router
     ID is used, otherwise the router-ID of the peer the route was
     received from is used.

12. Cluster-List length check
     The route with the shortest cluster-list length is used.  The
     cluster-list reflects the iBGP reflection path the route has taken.

13. Peer address
     Prefer the route received from the peer with the higher transport
     layer address, as a last-resort tie-breaker.

 -- BGP: bgp bestpath as-path confed
     This command specifies that the length of confederation path sets
     and sequences should should be taken into account during the BGP
     best path decision process.

 -- BGP: bgp bestpath as-path multipath-relax
     This command specifies that BGP decision process should consider
     paths of equal AS_PATH length candidates for multipath computation.
     Without the knob, the entire AS_PATH must match for multipath
     computation.

 -- BGP: bgp bestpath compare-routerid

     Ensure that when comparing routes where both are equal on most
     metrics, including local-pref, AS_PATH length, IGP cost, MED, that
     the tie is broken based on router-ID.

     If this option is enabled, then the already-selected check, where
     already selected eBGP routes are preferred, is skipped.

     If a route has an ORIGINATOR_ID attribute because it has been
     reflected, that ORIGINATOR_ID will be used.  Otherwise, the
     router-ID of the peer the route was received from will be used.

     The advantage of this is that the route-selection (at this point)
     will be more deterministic.  The disadvantage is that a few or even
     one lowest-ID router may attract all trafic to otherwise-equal
     paths because of this check.  It may increase the possibility of
     MED or IGP oscillation, unless other measures were taken to avoid
     these.  The exact behaviour will be sensitive to the iBGP and
     reflection topology.

File: quagga.info,  Node: BGP route flap dampening,  Prev: BGP decision process,  Up: BGP router

11.2.3 BGP route flap dampening
-------------------------------

 -- BGP: bgp dampening <1-45> <1-20000> <1-20000> <1-255>
     This command enables BGP route-flap dampening and specifies
     dampening parameters.

     half-life
          Half-life time for the penalty
     reuse-threshold
          Value to start reusing a route
     suppress-threshold
          Value to start suppressing a route
     max-suppress
          Maximum duration to suppress a stable route

     The route-flap damping algorithm is compatible with 'RFC2439'.  The
     use of this command is not recommended nowadays, see RIPE-378.

File: quagga.info,  Node: BGP MED,  Next: BGP network,  Prev: BGP router,  Up: BGP

