11.3 BGP MED
============

The BGP MED (Multi_Exit_Discriminator) attribute has properties which
can cause subtle convergence problems in BGP. These properties and
problems have proven to be hard to understand, at least historically,
and may still not be widely understood.  The following attempts to
collect together and present what is known about MED, to help operators
and Quagga users in designing and configuring their networks.

   The BGP MED (Multi_Exit_Discriminator) attribute is intended to allow
one AS to indicate its preferences for its ingress points to another AS.
The MED attribute will not be propagated on to another AS by the
receiving AS - it is 'non-transitive' in the BGP sense.

   E.g., if AS X and AS Y have 2 different BGP peering points, then AS X
might set a MED of 100 on routes advertised at one and a MED of 200 at
the other.  When AS Y selects between otherwise equal routes to or via
AS X, AS Y should prefer to take the path via the lower MED peering of
100 with AS X. Setting the MED allows an AS to influence the routing
taken to it within another, neighbouring AS.

   In this use of MED it is not really meaningful to compare the MED
value on routes where the next AS on the paths differs.  E.g., if AS Y
also had a route for some destination via AS Z in addition to the routes
from AS X, and AS Z had also set a MED, it wouldn't make sense for AS Y
to compare AS Z's MED values to those of AS X. The MED values have been
set by different administrators, with different frames of reference.

   The default behaviour of BGP therefore is to not compare MED values
across routes received from different neighbouring ASes.  In Quagga this
is done by comparing the neighbouring, left-most AS in the received
AS_PATHs of the routes and only comparing MED if those are the same.

   Unfortunately, this behaviour of MED, of sometimes being compared
across routes and sometimes not, depending on the properties of those
other routes, means MED can cause the order of preference over all the
routes to be undefined.  That is, given routes A, B, and C, if A is
preferred to B, and B is preferred to C, then a well-defined order
should mean the preference is transitive (in the sense of orders (1))
and that A would be preferred to C.

   However, when MED is involved this need not be the case.  With MED it
is possible that C is actually preferred over A. So A is preferred to B,
B is preferred to C, but C is preferred to A. This can be true even
where BGP defines a deterministic "most preferred" route out of the full
set of A,B,C. With MED, for any given set of routes there may be a
deterministically preferred route, but there need not be any way to
arrange them into any order of preference.  With unmodified MED, the
order of preference of routes literally becomes undefined.

   That MED can induce non-transitive preferences over routes can cause
issues.  Firstly, it may be perceived to cause routing table churn
locally at speakers; secondly, and more seriously, it may cause routing
instability in iBGP topologies, where sets of speakers continually
oscillate between different paths.

   The first issue arises from how speakers often implement routing
decisions.  Though BGP defines a selection process that will
deterministically select the same route as best at any given speaker,
even with MED, that process requires evaluating all routes together.
For performance and ease of implementation reasons, many implementations
evaluate route preferences in a pair-wise fashion instead.  Given there
is no well-defined order when MED is involved, the best route that will
be chosen becomes subject to implementation details, such as the order
the routes are stored in.  That may be (locally) non-deterministic, e.g.
it may be the order the routes were received in.

   This indeterminism may be considered undesirable, though it need not
cause problems.  It may mean additional routing churn is perceived, as
sometimes more updates may be produced than at other times in reaction
to some event .

   This first issue can be fixed with a more deterministic route
selection that ensures routes are ordered by the neighbouring AS during
selection.  *Note bgp deterministic-med::.  This may reduce the number
of updates as routes are received, and may in some cases reduce routing
churn.  Though, it could equally deterministically produce the largest
possible set of updates in response to the most common sequence of
received updates.

   A deterministic order of evaluation tends to imply an additional
overhead of sorting over any set of n routes to a destination.  The
implementation of deterministic MED in Quagga scales significantly worse
than most sorting algorithms at present, with the number of paths to a
given destination.  That number is often low enough to not cause any
issues, but where there are many paths, the deterministic comparison may
quickly become increasingly expensive in terms of CPU.

   Deterministic local evaluation can _not_ fix the second, more major,
issue of MED however.  Which is that the non-transitive preference of
routes MED can cause may lead to routing instability or oscillation
across multiple speakers in iBGP topologies.  This can occur with
full-mesh iBGP, but is particularly problematic in non-full-mesh iBGP
topologies that further reduce the routing information known to each
speaker.  This has primarily been documented with iBGP route-reflection
topologies.  However, any route-hiding technologies potentially could
also exacerbate oscillation with MED.

   This second issue occurs where speakers each have only a subset of
routes, and there are cycles in the preferences between different
combinations of routes - as the undefined order of preference of MED
allows - and the routes are distributed in a way that causes the BGP
speakers to 'chase' those cycles.  This can occur even if all speakers
use a deterministic order of evaluation in route selection.

   E.g., speaker 4 in AS A might receive a route from speaker 2 in AS X,
and from speaker 3 in AS Y; while speaker 5 in AS A might receive that
route from speaker 1 in AS Y. AS Y might set a MED of 200 at speaker 1,
and 100 at speaker 3.  I.e, using ASN:ID:MED to label the speakers:


                /---------------\
      X:2------|--A:4-------A:5--|-Y:1:200
      Y:3:100--|-/               |
                \---------------/


   Assuming all other metrics are equal (AS_PATH, ORIGIN, 0 IGP costs),
then based on the RFC4271 decision process speaker 4 will choose X:2
over Y:3:100, based on the lower ID of 2.  Speaker 4 advertises X:2 to
speaker 5.  Speaker 5 will continue to prefer Y:1:200 based on the ID,
and advertise this to speaker 4.  Speaker 4 will now have the full set
of routes, and the Y:1:200 it receives from 5 will beat X:2, but when
speaker 4 compares Y:1:200 to Y:3:100 the MED check now becomes active
as the ASes match, and now Y:3:100 is preferred.  Speaker 4 therefore
now advertises Y:3:100 to 5, which will also agrees that Y:3:100 is
preferred to Y:1:200, and so withdraws the latter route from 4.  Speaker
4 now has only X:2 and Y:3:100, and X:2 beats Y:3:100, and so speaker 4
implicitly updates its route to speaker 5 to X:2.  Speaker 5 sees that
Y:1:200 beats X:2 based on the ID, and advertises Y:1:200 to speaker 4,
and the cycle continues.

   The root cause is the lack of a clear order of preference caused by
how MED sometimes is and sometimes is not compared, leading to this
cycle in the preferences between the routes:


            /---> X:2 ---beats---> Y:3:100 --\
           |                                  |
           |                                  |
            \---beats--- Y:1:200 <---beats---/


   This particular type of oscillation in full-mesh iBGP topologies can
be avoided by speakers preferring already selected, external routes
rather than choosing to update to new a route based on a post-MED metric
(e.g.  router-ID), at the cost of a non-deterministic selection process.
Quagga implements this, as do many other implementations, so long as it
is not overridden by setting *note bgp bestpath compare-routerid::, and
see also *note BGP decision process::, .

   However, more complex and insidious cycles of oscillation are
possible with iBGP route-reflection, which are not so easily avoided.
These have been documented in various places.  See, e.g., 'McPherson, D.
and Gill, V. and Walton, D., "Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) Persistent
Route Oscillation Condition", IETF RFC3345', and 'Flavel, A. and M.
Roughan, "Stable and flexible iBGP", ACM SIGCOMM 2009', and 'Griffin, T.
and G. Wilfong, "On the correctness of IBGP configuration", ACM SIGCOMM
2002' for concrete examples and further references.

   There is as of this writing _no_ known way to use MED for its
original purpose; _and_ reduce routing information in iBGP topologies;
_and_ be sure to avoid the instability problems of MED due the
non-transitive routing preferences it can induce; in general on
arbitrary networks.

   There may be iBGP topology specific ways to reduce the instability
risks, even while using MED, e.g. by constraining the reflection
topology and by tuning IGP costs between route-reflector clusters, see
RFC3345 for details.  In the near future, the Add-Path extension to BGP
may also solve MED oscillation while still allowing MED to be used as
intended, by distributing "best-paths per neighbour AS". This would be
at the cost of distributing at least as many routes to all speakers as a
full-mesh iBGP would, if not more, while also imposing similar CPU
overheads as the "Deterministic MED" feature at each Add-Path reflector.

   More generally, the instability problems that MED can introduce on
more complex, non-full-mesh, iBGP topologies may be avoided either by:

   * Setting *note bgp always-compare-med::, however this allows MED to
     be compared across values set by different neighbour ASes, which
     may not produce coherent desirable results, of itself.

   * Effectively ignoring MED by setting MED to the same value (e.g. 0)
     using *note routemap set metric:: on all received routes, in
     combination with setting *note bgp always-compare-med:: on all
     speakers.  This is the simplest and most performant way to avoid
     MED oscillation issues, where an AS is happy not to allow
     neighbours to inject this problematic metric.

   As MED is evaluated after the AS_PATH length check, another possible
use for MED is for intra-AS steering of routes with equal AS_PATH
length, as an extension of the last case above.  As MED is evaluated
before IGP metric, this can allow cold-potato routing to be implemented
to send traffic to preferred hand-offs with neighbours, rather than the
closest hand-off according to the IGP metric.

   Note that even if action is taken to address the MED non-transitivity
issues, other oscillations may still be possible.  E.g., on IGP cost if
iBGP and IGP topologies are at cross-purposes with each other - see the
Flavel and Roughan paper above for an example.  Hence the guideline that
the iBGP topology should follow the IGP topology.

 -- BGP: bgp deterministic-med

     Carry out route-selection in way that produces deterministic
     answers locally, even in the face of MED and the lack of a
     well-defined order of preference it can induce on routes.  Without
     this option the preferred route with MED may be determined largely
     by the order that routes were received in.

     Setting this option will have a performance cost that may be
     noticeable when there are many routes for each destination.
     Currently in Quagga it is implemented in a way that scales poorly
     as the number of routes per destination increases.

     The default is that this option is not set.

   Note that there are other sources of indeterminism in the route
selection process, specifically, the preference for older and already
selected routes from eBGP peers, *Note BGP decision process::.

 -- BGP: bgp always-compare-med

     Always compare the MED on routes, even when they were received from
     different neighbouring ASes.  Setting this option makes the order
     of preference of routes more defined, and should eliminate MED
     induced oscillations.

     If using this option, it may also be desirable to use *note
     routemap set metric:: to set MED to 0 on routes received from
     external neighbours.

     This option can be used, together with *note routemap set metric::
     to use MED as an intra-AS metric to steer equal-length AS_PATH
     routes to, e.g., desired exit points.

   ---------- Footnotes ----------

   (1) For some set of objects to have an order, there _must_ be some
binary ordering relation that is defined for _every_ combination of
those objects, and that relation _must_ be transitive.  I.e., if the
relation operator is ≺, and if a ≺ b and b ≺ c then that relation
must carry over and it _must_ be that a ≺ c for the objects to have an
order.  The ordering relation may allow for equality, i.e.  a ≺ b and
b ≺ a may both be true amd imply that a and b are equal in the order
and not distinguished by it, in which case the set has a partial order.
Otherwise, if there is an order, all the objects have a distinct place
in the order and the set has a total order.

File: quagga.info,  Node: BGP network,  Next: BGP Peer,  Prev: BGP MED,  Up: BGP

