11.9 BGP Communities Attribute
==============================

BGP communities attribute is widely used for implementing policy
routing.  Network operators can manipulate BGP communities attribute
based on their network policy.  BGP communities attribute is defined in
'RFC1997, BGP Communities Attribute' and 'RFC1998, An Application of the
BGP Community Attribute in Multi-home Routing'.  It is an optional
transitive attribute, therefore local policy can travel through
different autonomous system.

   Communities attribute is a set of communities values.  Each
communities value is 4 octet long.  The following format is used to
define communities value.

'AS:VAL'
     This format represents 4 octet communities value.  'AS' is high
     order 2 octet in digit format.  'VAL' is low order 2 octet in digit
     format.  This format is useful to define AS oriented policy value.
     For example, '7675:80' can be used when AS 7675 wants to pass local
     policy value 80 to neighboring peer.
'internet'
     'internet' represents well-known communities value 0.
'no-export'
     'no-export' represents well-known communities value 'NO_EXPORT'
     (0xFFFFFF01).  All routes carry this value must not be advertised
     to outside a BGP confederation boundary.  If neighboring BGP peer
     is part of BGP confederation, the peer is considered as inside a
     BGP confederation boundary, so the route will be announced to the
     peer.
'no-advertise'
     'no-advertise' represents well-known communities value
     'NO_ADVERTISE'
     (0xFFFFFF02).  All routes carry this value must not be advertise to
     other BGP peers.
'local-AS'
     'local-AS' represents well-known communities value
     'NO_EXPORT_SUBCONFED' (0xFFFFFF03).  All routes carry this value
     must not be advertised to external BGP peers.  Even if the
     neighboring router is part of confederation, it is considered as
     external BGP peer, so the route will not be announced to the peer.

   When BGP communities attribute is received, duplicated communities
value in the communities attribute is ignored and each communities
values are sorted in numerical order.

* Menu:

* BGP Community Lists::         
* Numbered BGP Community Lists::  
* BGP Community in Route Map::  
* Display BGP Routes by Community::  
* Using BGP Communities Attribute::  

File: quagga.info,  Node: BGP Community Lists,  Next: Numbered BGP Community Lists,  Up: BGP Communities Attribute

11.9.1 BGP Community Lists
--------------------------

BGP community list is a user defined BGP communites attribute list.  BGP
community list can be used for matching or manipulating BGP communities
attribute in updates.

   There are two types of community list.  One is standard community
list and another is expanded community list.  Standard community list
defines communities attribute.  Expanded community list defines
communities attribute string with regular expression.  Standard
community list is compiled into binary format when user define it.
Standard community list will be directly compared to BGP communities
attribute in BGP updates.  Therefore the comparison is faster than
expanded community list.

 -- Command: ip community-list standard NAME {permit|deny} COMMUNITY
     This command defines a new standard community list.  COMMUNITY is
     communities value.  The COMMUNITY is compiled into community
     structure.  We can define multiple community list under same name.
     In that case match will happen user defined order.  Once the
     community list matches to communities attribute in BGP updates it
     return permit or deny by the community list definition.  When there
     is no matched entry, deny will be returned.  When COMMUNITY is
     empty it matches to any routes.

 -- Command: ip community-list expanded NAME {permit|deny} LINE
     This command defines a new expanded community list.  LINE is a
     string expression of communities attribute.  LINE can include
     regular expression to match communities attribute in BGP updates.

 -- Command: no ip community-list NAME
 -- Command: no ip community-list standard NAME
 -- Command: no ip community-list expanded NAME
     These commands delete community lists specified by NAME.  All of
     community lists shares a single name space.  So community lists can
     be removed simpley specifying community lists name.

 -- Command: show ip community-list
 -- Command: show ip community-list NAME
     This command display current community list information.  When NAME
     is specified the specified community list's information is shown.

          # show ip community-list
          Named Community standard list CLIST
              permit 7675:80 7675:100 no-export
              deny internet
          Named Community expanded list EXPAND
              permit :

          # show ip community-list CLIST
          Named Community standard list CLIST
              permit 7675:80 7675:100 no-export
              deny internet

File: quagga.info,  Node: Numbered BGP Community Lists,  Next: BGP Community in Route Map,  Prev: BGP Community Lists,  Up: BGP Communities Attribute

11.9.2 Numbered BGP Community Lists
-----------------------------------

When number is used for BGP community list name, the number has special
meanings.  Community list number in the range from 1 and 99 is standard
community list.  Community list number in the range from 100 to 199 is
expanded community list.  These community lists are called as numbered
community lists.  On the other hand normal community lists is called as
named community lists.

 -- Command: ip community-list <1-99> {permit|deny} COMMUNITY
     This command defines a new community list.  <1-99> is standard
     community list number.  Community list name within this range
     defines standard community list.  When COMMUNITY is empty it
     matches to any routes.

 -- Command: ip community-list <100-199> {permit|deny} COMMUNITY
     This command defines a new community list.  <100-199> is expanded
     community list number.  Community list name within this range
     defines expanded community list.

 -- Command: ip community-list NAME {permit|deny} COMMUNITY
     When community list type is not specifed, the community list type
     is automatically detected.  If COMMUNITY can be compiled into
     communities attribute, the community list is defined as a standard
     community list.  Otherwise it is defined as an expanded community
     list.  This feature is left for backward compability.  Use of this
     feature is not recommended.

File: quagga.info,  Node: BGP Community in Route Map,  Next: Display BGP Routes by Community,  Prev: Numbered BGP Community Lists,  Up: BGP Communities Attribute

11.9.3 BGP Community in Route Map
---------------------------------

In Route Map (*note Route Map::), we can match or set BGP communities
attribute.  Using this feature network operator can implement their
network policy based on BGP communities attribute.

   Following commands can be used in Route Map.

 -- Route Map: match community WORD
 -- Route Map: match community WORD exact-match
     This command perform match to BGP updates using community list
     WORD.  When the one of BGP communities value match to the one of
     communities value in community list, it is match.  When
     'exact-match' keyword is spcified, match happen only when BGP
     updates have completely same communities value specified in the
     community list.

 -- Route Map: set community none
 -- Route Map: set community COMMUNITY
 -- Route Map: set community COMMUNITY additive
     This command manipulate communities value in BGP updates.  When
     'none' is specified as communities value, it removes entire
     communities attribute from BGP updates.  When COMMUNITY is not
     'none', specified communities value is set to BGP updates.  If BGP
     updates already has BGP communities value, the existing BGP
     communities value is replaced with specified COMMUNITY value.  When
     'additive' keyword is specified, COMMUNITY is appended to the
     existing communities value.

 -- Route Map: set comm-list WORD delete
     This command remove communities value from BGP communities
     attribute.  The WORD is community list name.  When BGP route's
     communities value matches to the community list WORD, the
     communities value is removed.  When all of communities value is
     removed eventually, the BGP update's communities attribute is
     completely removed.

File: quagga.info,  Node: Display BGP Routes by Community,  Next: Using BGP Communities Attribute,  Prev: BGP Community in Route Map,  Up: BGP Communities Attribute

11.9.4 Display BGP Routes by Community
--------------------------------------

To show BGP routes which has specific BGP communities attribute, 'show
ip bgp' command can be used.  The COMMUNITY value and community list can
be used for 'show ip bgp' command.

 -- Command: show ip bgp community
 -- Command: show ip bgp community COMMUNITY
 -- Command: show ip bgp community COMMUNITY exact-match
     'show ip bgp community' displays BGP routes which has communities
     attribute.  When COMMUNITY is specified, BGP routes that matches
     COMMUNITY value is displayed.  For this command, 'internet' keyword
     can't be used for COMMUNITY value.  When 'exact-match' is
     specified, it display only routes that have an exact match.

 -- Command: show ip bgp community-list WORD
 -- Command: show ip bgp community-list WORD exact-match
     This commands display BGP routes that matches community list WORD.
     When 'exact-match' is specified, display only routes that have an
     exact match.

File: quagga.info,  Node: Using BGP Communities Attribute,  Prev: Display BGP Routes by Community,  Up: BGP Communities Attribute

11.9.5 Using BGP Communities Attribute
--------------------------------------

Following configuration is the most typical usage of BGP communities
attribute.  AS 7675 provides upstream Internet connection to AS 100.
When following configuration exists in AS 7675, AS 100 networks operator
can set local preference in AS 7675 network by setting BGP communities
attribute to the updates.

     router bgp 7675
      neighbor 192.168.0.1 remote-as 100
      neighbor 192.168.0.1 route-map RMAP in
     !
     ip community-list 70 permit 7675:70
     ip community-list 70 deny
     ip community-list 80 permit 7675:80
     ip community-list 80 deny
     ip community-list 90 permit 7675:90
     ip community-list 90 deny
     !
     route-map RMAP permit 10
      match community 70
      set local-preference 70
     !
     route-map RMAP permit 20
      match community 80
      set local-preference 80
     !
     route-map RMAP permit 30
      match community 90
      set local-preference 90

   Following configuration announce 10.0.0.0/8 from AS 100 to AS 7675.
The route has communities value 7675:80 so when above configuration
exists in AS 7675, announced route's local preference will be set to
value 80.

     router bgp 100
      network 10.0.0.0/8
      neighbor 192.168.0.2 remote-as 7675
      neighbor 192.168.0.2 route-map RMAP out
     !
     ip prefix-list PLIST permit 10.0.0.0/8
     !
     route-map RMAP permit 10
      match ip address prefix-list PLIST
      set community 7675:80

   Following configuration is an example of BGP route filtering using
communities attribute.  This configuration only permit BGP routes which
has BGP communities value 0:80 and 0:90.  Network operator can put
special internal communities value at BGP border router, then limit the
BGP routes announcement into the internal network.

     router bgp 7675
      neighbor 192.168.0.1 remote-as 100
      neighbor 192.168.0.1 route-map RMAP in
     !
     ip community-list 1 permit 0:80 0:90
     !
     route-map RMAP permit in
      match community 1

   Following exmaple filter BGP routes which has communities value 1:1.
When there is no match community-list returns deny.  To avoid filtering
all of routes, we need to define permit any at last.

     router bgp 7675
      neighbor 192.168.0.1 remote-as 100
      neighbor 192.168.0.1 route-map RMAP in
     !
     ip community-list standard FILTER deny 1:1
     ip community-list standard FILTER permit
     !
     route-map RMAP permit 10
      match community FILTER

   Communities value keyword 'internet' has special meanings in standard
community lists.  In below example 'internet' act as match any.  It
matches all of BGP routes even if the route does not have communities
attribute at all.  So community list 'INTERNET' is same as above
example's 'FILTER'.

     ip community-list standard INTERNET deny 1:1
     ip community-list standard INTERNET permit internet

   Following configuration is an example of communities value deletion.
With this configuration communities value 100:1 and 100:2 is removed
from BGP updates.  For communities value deletion, only 'permit'
community-list is used.  'deny' community-list is ignored.

     router bgp 7675
      neighbor 192.168.0.1 remote-as 100
      neighbor 192.168.0.1 route-map RMAP in
     !
     ip community-list standard DEL permit 100:1 100:2
     !
     route-map RMAP permit 10
      set comm-list DEL delete

File: quagga.info,  Node: BGP Extended Communities Attribute,  Next: Displaying BGP routes,  Prev: BGP Communities Attribute,  Up: BGP

