11.12 Capability Negotiation
============================

When adding IPv6 routing information exchange feature to BGP. There were
some proposals.  IETF (Internet Engineering Task Force) IDR (Inter
Domain Routing) WG (Working group) adopted a proposal called
Multiprotocol Extension for BGP. The specification is described in
'RFC2283'.  The protocol does not define new protocols.  It defines new
attributes to existing BGP. When it is used exchanging IPv6 routing
information it is called BGP-4+.  When it is used for exchanging
multicast routing information it is called MBGP.

   'bgpd' supports Multiprotocol Extension for BGP. So if remote peer
supports the protocol, 'bgpd' can exchange IPv6 and/or multicast routing
information.

   Traditional BGP did not have the feature to detect remote peer's
capabilities, e.g.  whether it can handle prefix types other than IPv4
unicast routes.  This was a big problem using Multiprotocol Extension
for BGP to operational network.  'RFC2842, Capabilities Advertisement
with BGP-4' adopted a feature called Capability Negotiation.  'bgpd' use
this Capability Negotiation to detect the remote peer's capabilities.
If the peer is only configured as IPv4 unicast neighbor, 'bgpd' does not
send these Capability Negotiation packets (at least not unless other
optional BGP features require capability negotation).

   By default, Quagga will bring up peering with minimal common
capability for the both sides.  For example, local router has unicast
and multicast capabilitie and remote router has unicast capability.  In
this case, the local router will establish the connection with unicast
only capability.  When there are no common capabilities, Quagga sends
Unsupported Capability error and then resets the connection.

   If you want to completely match capabilities with remote peer.
Please use 'strict-capability-match' command.

 -- BGP: neighbor PEER strict-capability-match
 -- BGP: no neighbor PEER strict-capability-match
     Strictly compares remote capabilities and local capabilities.  If
     capabilities are different, send Unsupported Capability error then
     reset connection.

   You may want to disable sending Capability Negotiation OPEN message
optional parameter to the peer when remote peer does not implement
Capability Negotiation.  Please use 'dont-capability-negotiate' command
to disable the feature.

 -- BGP: neighbor PEER dont-capability-negotiate
 -- BGP: no neighbor PEER dont-capability-negotiate
     Suppress sending Capability Negotiation as OPEN message optional
     parameter to the peer.  This command only affects the peer is
     configured other than IPv4 unicast configuration.

   When remote peer does not have capability negotiation feature, remote
peer will not send any capabilities at all.  In that case, bgp
configures the peer with configured capabilities.

   You may prefer locally configured capabilities more than the
negotiated capabilities even though remote peer sends capabilities.  If
the peer is configured by 'override-capability', 'bgpd' ignores received
capabilities then override negotiated capabilities with configured
values.

 -- BGP: neighbor PEER override-capability
 -- BGP: no neighbor PEER override-capability
     Override the result of Capability Negotiation with local
     configuration.  Ignore remote peer's capability value.

File: quagga.info,  Node: Route Reflector,  Next: Route Server,  Prev: Capability Negotiation,  Up: BGP

