14.2 IP Prefix List
===================

'ip prefix-list' provides the most powerful prefix based filtering
mechanism.  In addition to 'access-list' functionality, 'ip prefix-list'
has prefix length range specification and sequential number
specification.  You can add or delete prefix based filters to arbitrary
points of prefix-list using sequential number specification.

   If no ip prefix-list is specified, it acts as permit.  If 'ip
prefix-list' is defined, and no match is found, default deny is applied.

 -- Command: ip prefix-list NAME (permit|deny) PREFIX [le LEN] [ge LEN]
 -- Command: ip prefix-list NAME seq NUMBER (permit|deny) PREFIX [le
          LEN] [ge LEN]

     You can create 'ip prefix-list' using above commands.

     seq
          seq NUMBER can be set either automatically or manually.  In
          the case that sequential numbers are set manually, the user
          may pick any number less than 4294967295.  In the case that
          sequential number are set automatically, the sequential number
          will increase by a unit of five (5) per list.  If a list with
          no specified sequential number is created after a list with a
          specified sequential number, the list will automatically pick
          the next multiple of five (5) as the list number.  For
          example, if a list with number 2 already exists and a new list
          with no specified number is created, the next list will be
          numbered 5.  If lists 2 and 7 already exist and a new list
          with no specified number is created, the new list will be
          numbered 10.

     le
          'le' command specifies prefix length.  The prefix list will be
          applied if the prefix length is less than or equal to the le
          prefix length.

     ge
          'ge' command specifies prefix length.  The prefix list will be
          applied if the prefix length is greater than or equal to the
          ge prefix length.

   Less than or equal to prefix numbers and greater than or equal to
prefix numbers can be used together.  The order of the le and ge
commands does not matter.

   If a prefix list with a different sequential number but with the
exact same rules as a previous list is created, an error will result.
However, in the case that the sequential number and the rules are
exactly similar, no error will result.

   If a list with the same sequential number as a previous list is
created, the new list will overwrite the old list.

   Matching of IP Prefix is performed from the smaller sequential number
to the larger.  The matching will stop once any rule has been applied.

   In the case of no le or ge command, the prefix length must match
exactly the length specified in the prefix list.

 -- Command: no ip prefix-list NAME

* Menu:

* ip prefix-list description::  
* ip prefix-list sequential number control::  
* Showing ip prefix-list::      
* Clear counter of ip prefix-list::  

File: quagga.info,  Node: ip prefix-list description,  Next: ip prefix-list sequential number control,  Up: IP Prefix List

14.2.1 ip prefix-list description
---------------------------------

 -- Command: ip prefix-list NAME description DESC
     Descriptions may be added to prefix lists.  This command adds a
     description to the prefix list.

 -- Command: no ip prefix-list NAME description [DESC]
     Deletes the description from a prefix list.  It is possible to use
     the command without the full description.

File: quagga.info,  Node: ip prefix-list sequential number control,  Next: Showing ip prefix-list,  Prev: ip prefix-list description,  Up: IP Prefix List

14.2.2 ip prefix-list sequential number control
-----------------------------------------------

 -- Command: ip prefix-list sequence-number
     With this command, the IP prefix list sequential number is
     displayed.  This is the default behavior.

 -- Command: no ip prefix-list sequence-number
     With this command, the IP prefix list sequential number is not
     displayed.

File: quagga.info,  Node: Showing ip prefix-list,  Next: Clear counter of ip prefix-list,  Prev: ip prefix-list sequential number control,  Up: IP Prefix List

14.2.3 Showing ip prefix-list
-----------------------------

 -- Command: show ip prefix-list
     Display all IP prefix lists.

 -- Command: show ip prefix-list NAME
     Show IP prefix list can be used with a prefix list name.

 -- Command: show ip prefix-list NAME seq NUM
     Show IP prefix list can be used with a prefix list name and
     sequential number.

 -- Command: show ip prefix-list NAME A.B.C.D/M
     If the command longer is used, all prefix lists with prefix lengths
     equal to or longer than the specified length will be displayed.  If
     the command first match is used, the first prefix length match will
     be displayed.

 -- Command: show ip prefix-list NAME A.B.C.D/M longer

 -- Command: show ip prefix-list NAME A.B.C.D/M first-match

 -- Command: show ip prefix-list summary
 -- Command: show ip prefix-list summary NAME

 -- Command: show ip prefix-list detail
 -- Command: show ip prefix-list detail NAME

File: quagga.info,  Node: Clear counter of ip prefix-list,  Prev: Showing ip prefix-list,  Up: IP Prefix List

14.2.4 Clear counter of ip prefix-list
--------------------------------------

 -- Command: clear ip prefix-list
     Clears the counters of all IP prefix lists.  Clear IP Prefix List
     can be used with a specified name and prefix.

 -- Command: clear ip prefix-list NAME

 -- Command: clear ip prefix-list NAME A.B.C.D/M

File: quagga.info,  Node: Route Map,  Next: IPv6 Support,  Prev: Filtering,  Up: Top

