CREDENTIALS
       These options are only available for system services and are not supported for services running in per-user instances of the service manager.

       User=, Group=
           Set the UNIX user or group that the processes are executed as, respectively. Takes a single user or group name, or a numeric ID as argument. For system services (services run
           by the system service manager, i.e. managed by PID 1) and for user services of the root user (services managed by root's instance of systemd --user), the default is "root",
           but User= may be used to specify a different user. For user services of any other user, switching user identity is not permitted, hence the only valid setting is the same
           user the user's service manager is running as. If no group is set, the default group of the user is used. This setting does not affect commands whose command line is prefixed
           with "+".

           Note that restrictions on the user/group name syntax are enforced: the specified name must consist only of the characters a-z, A-Z, 0-9, "_" and "-", except for the first
           character which must be one of a-z, A-Z or "_" (i.e. numbers and "-" are not permitted as first character). The user/group name must have at least one character, and at most
           31. These restrictions are enforced in order to avoid ambiguities and to ensure user/group names and unit files remain portable among Linux systems.

           When used in conjunction with DynamicUser= the user/group name specified is dynamically allocated at the time the service is started, and released at the time the service is
           stopped -- unless it is already allocated statically (see below). If DynamicUser= is not used the specified user and group must have been created statically in the user
           database no later than the moment the service is started, for example using the sysusers.d(5) facility, which is applied at boot or package install time.

           If the User= setting is used the supplementary group list is initialized from the specified user's default group list, as defined in the system's user and group database.
           Additional groups may be configured through the SupplementaryGroups= setting (see below).

       DynamicUser=
           Takes a boolean parameter. If set, a UNIX user and group pair is allocated dynamically when the unit is started, and released as soon as it is stopped. The user and group
           will not be added to /etc/passwd or /etc/group, but are managed transiently during runtime. The nss-systemd(8) glibc NSS module provides integration of these dynamic
           users/groups into the system's user and group databases. The user and group name to use may be configured via User= and Group= (see above). If these options are not used and
           dynamic user/group allocation is enabled for a unit, the name of the dynamic user/group is implicitly derived from the unit name. If the unit name without the type suffix
           qualifies as valid user name it is used directly, otherwise a name incorporating a hash of it is used. If a statically allocated user or group of the configured name already
           exists, it is used and no dynamic user/group is allocated. Note that if User= is specified and the static group with the name exists, then it is required that the static user
           with the name already exists. Similarly, if Group= is specified and the static user with the name exists, then it is required that the static group with the name already
           exists. Dynamic users/groups are allocated from the UID/GID range 61184...65519. It is recommended to avoid this range for regular system or login users. At any point in time
           each UID/GID from this range is only assigned to zero or one dynamically allocated users/groups in use. However, UID/GIDs are recycled after a unit is terminated. Care should
           be taken that any processes running as part of a unit for which dynamic users/groups are enabled do not leave files or directories owned by these users/groups around, as a
           different unit might get the same UID/GID assigned later on, and thus gain access to these files or directories. If DynamicUser= is enabled, RemoveIPC=, PrivateTmp= are
           implied. This ensures that the lifetime of IPC objects and temporary files created by the executed processes is bound to the runtime of the service, and hence the lifetime of
           the dynamic user/group. Since /tmp and /var/tmp are usually the only world-writable directories on a system this ensures that a unit making use of dynamic user/group
           allocation cannot leave files around after unit termination. Moreover ProtectSystem=strict and ProtectHome=read-only are implied, thus prohibiting the service to write to
           arbitrary file system locations. In order to allow the service to write to certain directories, they have to be whitelisted using ReadWritePaths=, but care must be taken so
           that UID/GID recycling doesn't create security issues involving files created by the service. Use RuntimeDirectory= (see below) in order to assign a writable runtime
           directory to a service, owned by the dynamic user/group and removed automatically when the unit is terminated. Use StateDirectory=, CacheDirectory= and LogsDirectory= in
           order to assign a set of writable directories for specific purposes to the service in a way that they are protected from vulnerabilities due to UID reuse (see below). If this
           option is enabled, care should be taken that the unit's processes do not get access to directories outside of these explicitly configured and managed ones. Specifically, do
           not use BindPaths= and be careful with AF_UNIX file descriptor passing for directory file descriptors, as this would permit processes to create files or directories owned by
           the dynamic user/group that are not subject to the life-cycle and access guarantees of the service. Defaults to off.

       SupplementaryGroups=
           Sets the supplementary Unix groups the processes are executed as. This takes a space-separated list of group names or IDs. This option may be specified more than once, in
           which case all listed groups are set as supplementary groups. When the empty string is assigned, the list of supplementary groups is reset, and all assignments prior to this
           one will have no effect. In any way, this option does not override, but extends the list of supplementary groups configured in the system group database for the user. This
           does not affect commands prefixed with "+".

       PAMName=
           Sets the PAM service name to set up a session as. If set, the executed process will be registered as a PAM session under the specified service name. This is only useful in
           conjunction with the User= setting, and is otherwise ignored. If not set, no PAM session will be opened for the executed processes. See pam(8) for details.

           Note that for each unit making use of this option a PAM session handler process will be maintained as part of the unit and stays around as long as the unit is active, to
           ensure that appropriate actions can be taken when the unit and hence the PAM session terminates. This process is named "(sd-pam)" and is an immediate child process of the
           unit's main process.

           Note that when this option is used for a unit it is very likely (depending on PAM configuration) that the main unit process will be migrated to its own session scope unit
           when it is activated. This process will hence be associated with two units: the unit it was originally started from (and for which PAMName= was configured), and the session
           scope unit. Any child processes of that process will however be associated with the session scope unit only. This has implications when used in combination with
           NotifyAccess=all, as these child processes will not be able to affect changes in the original unit through notification messages. These messages will be considered belonging
           to the session scope unit and not the original unit. It is hence not recommended to use PAMName= in combination with NotifyAccess=all.

