1.1.  Transition to Port Control Protocol

   NAT-PMP enjoyed almost a decade of useful service, and operational
   experience with NAT-PMP informed the design of its IETF Standards
   Track successor, Port Control Protocol (PCP) [RFC6887].  PCP builds
   on NAT-PMP, using the same UDP ports 5350 and 5351, and a compatible
   packet format.  PCP also adds significant enhancements, including
   IPv6 support, management of outbound mappings, management of firewall
   rules, full compatibility with large-scale NATs with a pool of
   external addresses, error lifetimes, and an extension mechanism to
   enable future enhancements.

   Because of the significant enhancements in PCP, all existing NAT-PMP
   implementations are encouraged to migrate to PCP.  The version number
   in the packet header is 0 for NAT-PMP and 2 for PCP, so the packets
   are easily distinguished.  (Version number 1 was used by a vendor
   that shipped products that use a protocol that is incompatible with
   the IETF Standard.  PCP implementations MUST NOT use version
   number 1.)

   For NAT-PMP servers, adding PCP support is simple.  When packets are
   received, if the version number is 2, then the packet is interpreted
   as a PCP request, the request is handled, and replies and updates
   pertaining to that mapping are sent using PCP format.  If the version
   number is 0, then the existing code handles the request exactly as it
   already does, and replies and updates pertaining to that mapping are





Cheshire & Krochmal           Informational                     [Page 4]

RFC 6886                         NAT-PMP                      April 2013


   sent using NAT-PMP format.  If the version number is 1 or any other
   unsupported version, then result code 1 (Unsupported Version) is
   returned.

   NAT-PMP clients should add PCP support, and should default to sending
   requests using PCP format, which will cause clients to prefer the
   newer format when possible.  If a PCP request is sent to an old
   NAT-PMP server that doesn't understand the new PCP format, then it
   will return result code 1 (Unsupported Version), and the client
   should then immediately retry the same request using NAT-PMP format.
   The presence of the Unsupported Version reply allows fast fail-over
   to NAT-PMP format, without waiting for timeouts, retransmissions, or
   other arbitrary delays.  It is recommended that clients always try
   PCP first for every new request, retransmission, and renewal, and
   only try NAT-PMP in response to an "Unsupported Version" error.
   Clients SHOULD NOT record that a given server only speaks NAT-PMP and
   subsequently default to NAT-PMP for that server, since NAT firmware
   gets updated, and even a NAT gateway that speaks only NAT-PMP today,
   may be updated to speak PCP tomorrow.

