3.1.  Requests and Responses

   NAT gateways are often low-cost devices, with limited memory and CPU
   speed.  For this reason, to avoid making excessive demands on the NAT
   gateway, clients SHOULD NOT issue multiple concurrent requests.  If a
   client needs to perform multiple requests (e.g., on boot, wake from
   sleep, network connection, etc.), it SHOULD queue them and issue them
   serially, one at a time.  Once the NAT gateway responds to one
   request the client machine may issue the next.  In the case of a fast
   NAT gateway, the client may be able to complete requests at a rate of
   hundreds per second.  In the case of a slow NAT gateway that takes
   perhaps half a second to respond to a NAT-PMP request, the client
   SHOULD respect this and allow the NAT gateway to operate at the pace
   it can manage, and not overload it by issuing requests faster than
   the rate it's answering them.

   To determine the external IPv4 address, or to request a port mapping,
   a NAT-PMP client sends its request packet to port 5351 of its
   configured gateway address, and waits 250 ms for a response.  If no
   NAT-PMP response is received from the gateway after 250 ms, the
   client retransmits its request and waits 500 ms.  The client SHOULD
   repeat this process with the interval between attempts doubling each
   time.  If, after sending its ninth attempt (and then waiting for 64
   seconds), the client has still received no response, then it SHOULD
   conclude that this gateway does not support NAT Port Mapping Protocol
   and MAY log an error message indicating this fact.  In addition, if
   the NAT-PMP client receives an "ICMP Port Unreachable" message from





Cheshire & Krochmal           Informational                     [Page 6]

RFC 6886                         NAT-PMP                      April 2013


   the gateway for port 5351, then it can skip any remaining
   retransmissions and conclude immediately that the gateway does not
   support NAT-PMP.

   As a performance optimization the client MAY record this information
   and use it to suppress further attempts to use NAT-PMP, but the
   client should not retain this information for too long.  In
   particular, any event that may indicate a potential change of gateway
   or a change in gateway configuration (hardware link change
   indication, change of gateway MAC address, acquisition of new DHCP
   lease, receipt of NAT-PMP announcement packet from gateway, etc.)
   should cause the client to discard its previous information regarding
   the gateway's lack of NAT-PMP support, and send its next NAT-PMP
   request packet normally.

   When deleting a port mapping, the client uses the same initial 250 ms
   timeout, doubling on each successive interval, except that clients
   may choose not to try the full nine times before giving up.  This is
   because mapping deletion requests are in some sense advisory.  They
   are useful for efficiency, but not required for correctness; it is
   always possible for client software to crash, or for power to fail,
   or for a client device to be physically unplugged from the network
   before it gets a chance to send its mapping deletion request(s), so
   NAT gateways already need to cope with this case.  Because of this,
   it may be acceptable for a client to retry only once or twice before
   giving up on deleting its port mapping(s), but a client SHOULD always
   send at least one deletion request whenever possible, to reduce the
   amount of stale state that accumulates on NAT gateways.

   A client need not continue trying to delete a port mapping after the
   time when that mapping would naturally have expired anyway.

