3.4.  Destroying a Mapping

   A mapping may be destroyed in a variety of ways.  If a client fails
   to renew a mapping, then at the time its lifetime expires, the
   mapping MUST be automatically deleted.  In the common case where the
   gateway device is a combined DHCP server and NAT gateway, when a
   client's DHCP address lease expires, the gateway device MAY
   automatically delete any mappings belonging to that client.
   Otherwise, a new client being assigned the same IP address could
   receive unexpected inbound UDP packets or inbound TCP connection
   requests that it did not ask for and does not want.

   A client MAY also send an explicit packet to request deletion of a
   mapping that is no longer needed.  A client requests explicit
   deletion of a mapping by sending a message to the NAT gateway
   requesting the mapping, with the Requested Lifetime in Seconds set to
   zero.  The Suggested External Port MUST be set to zero by the client
   on sending, and MUST be ignored by the gateway on reception.

   When a mapping is destroyed successfully as a result of the client
   explicitly requesting the deletion, the NAT gateway MUST send a
   response packet that is formatted as defined in Section 3.3,
   "Requesting a Mapping".  The response MUST contain a result code of
   0, the internal port as indicated in the deletion request, an
   external port of 0, and a lifetime of 0.  The NAT gateway MUST
   respond to a request to destroy a mapping that does not exist as if
   the request were successful.  This is because of the case where the
   acknowledgment is lost, and the client retransmits its request to
   delete the mapping.  In this case, the second request to delete the
   mapping MUST return the same response packet as the first request.

   If the deletion request was unsuccessful, the response MUST contain a
   non-zero result code and the requested mapping; the lifetime is
   undefined (MUST be set to zero on transmission, and MUST be ignored
   on reception).  If the client attempts to delete a port mapping that
   was manually assigned by some kind of configuration tool, the NAT
   gateway MUST respond with a "Not Authorized" error, result code 2.






Cheshire & Krochmal           Informational                    [Page 13]

RFC 6886                         NAT-PMP                      April 2013


   When a mapping is destroyed as a result of its lifetime expiring or
   for any other reason, if the NAT gateway's internal state indicates
   that there are still active TCP connections traversing that now-
   defunct mapping, then the NAT gateway SHOULD send appropriately
   constructed TCP RST (reset) packets both to the local client and to
   the remote peer on the Internet to terminate that TCP connection.

   A client can request the explicit deletion of all its UDP or TCP
   mappings by sending the same deletion request to the NAT gateway with
   the external port, internal port, and lifetime set to zero.  A client
   MAY choose to do this when it first acquires a new IP address in
   order to protect itself from port mappings that were performed by a
   previous owner of the IP address.  After receiving such a deletion
   request, the gateway MUST delete all its UDP or TCP port mappings
   (depending on the opcode).  The gateway responds to such a deletion
   request with a response as described above, with the internal port
   set to zero.  If the gateway is unable to delete a port mapping, for
   example, because the mapping was manually configured by the
   administrator, the gateway MUST still delete as many port mappings as
   possible, but respond with a non-zero result code.  The exact result
   code to return depends on the cause of the failure.  If the gateway
   is able to successfully delete all port mappings as requested, it
   MUST respond with a result code of zero.

