3.7.  Recreating Mappings on NAT Gateway Reboot

   The NAT gateway MAY store mappings in persistent storage so that,
   when it is powered off or rebooted, it remembers the port mapping
   state of the network.

   However, maintaining this state is not essential for correct
   operation.  When the NAT gateway powers on or clears its port mapping
   state as the result of a configuration change, it MUST reset the
   epoch time and re-announce its IPv4 address as described in Section
   3.2.1, "Announcing Address Changes".  Reception of this packet where
   time has apparently gone backwards serves as a hint to clients on the
   network that they SHOULD immediately send renewal packets (to
   immediately recreate their mappings) instead of waiting until the
   originally scheduled time for those renewals.  Clients who miss
   receiving those gateway announcement packets for any reason will
   still renew their mappings at the originally scheduled time and cause
   their mappings to be recreated; it will just take a little longer for
   these clients.









Cheshire & Krochmal           Informational                    [Page 16]

RFC 6886                         NAT-PMP                      April 2013


   A mapping renewal packet is formatted identically to an original
   mapping request; from the point of view of the client, it is a
   renewal of an existing mapping, but from the point of view of the
   freshly rebooted NAT gateway, it appears as a new mapping request.

   This self-healing property of the protocol is very important.

   The remarkable reliability of the Internet as a whole derives in
   large part from the fact that important state is held in the
   endpoints, not in the network itself [ETEAISD].  Power-cycling an
   Ethernet switch results only in a brief interruption in the flow of
   packets; established TCP connections through that switch are not
   broken, merely delayed for a few seconds.  Indeed, a failing Ethernet
   switch can even be replaced with a new one, and as long as the cables
   are transferred over reasonably quickly, after the upgrade all the
   TCP connections that were previously going through the old switch
   will be unbroken and now going through the new one.  The same is true
   of IP routers, wireless base stations, etc.  The one exception is NAT
   gateways.  Because the port mapping state is required for the NAT
   gateway to know where to forward inbound packets, loss of that state
   breaks connectivity through the NAT gateway.  By allowing clients to
   detect when this loss of NAT gateway state has occurred, and recreate
   it on demand, we turn hard state in the network into soft state, and
   allow it to be recovered automatically when needed.

   Without this automatic recreation of soft state in the NAT gateway,
   reliable long-term networking would not be achieved.  As mentioned
   above, the reliability of the Internet does not come from trying to
   build a perfect network in which errors never happen, but from
   accepting that in any sufficiently large system there will always be
   some component somewhere that's failing, and designing mechanisms
   that can handle those failures and recover.  To illustrate this point
   with an example, consider the following scenario: Imagine a network
   security camera that has a web interface and accepts incoming
   connections from web browser clients.  Imagine this network security
   camera uses NAT-PMP or a similar protocol to set up an inbound port
   mapping in the NAT gateway so that it can receive incoming
   connections from clients on the other side of the NAT gateway.  Now,
   this camera may well operate for weeks, months, or even years.
   During that time, it's possible that the NAT gateway could experience
   a power failure or be rebooted.  The user could upgrade the NAT
   gateway's firmware, or even replace the entire NAT gateway device
   with a newer model.  The general point is that if the camera operates
   for a long enough period of time, some kind of disruption to the NAT
   gateway becomes inevitable.  The question is not whether the NAT
   gateway will lose its port mappings, but when, and how often.  If the
   network camera and devices like it on the network can detect when the
   NAT gateway has lost its port mappings, and recreate them



Cheshire & Krochmal           Informational                    [Page 17]

RFC 6886                         NAT-PMP                      April 2013


   automatically, then these disruptions are self-correcting and largely
   invisible to the end user.  If, on the other hand, the disruptions
   are not self-correcting, and after a NAT gateway reboot the user has
   to manually reset or reboot all the other devices on the network too,
   then these disruptions are *very* visible to the end user.  This
   aspect of the design is part of what makes the difference between a
   protocol that keeps on working indefinitely over a time scale of
   months or years, and a protocol that works in brief testing, but in
   the real world is continually failing and requiring manual
   intervention to get it going again.

   When a client renews its port mappings as the result of receiving a
   packet where the Seconds Since Start of Epoch (SSSoE) field indicates
   that a reboot or similar loss of state has occurred, the client MUST
   first delay by a random amount of time selected with uniform random
   distribution in the range 0 to 5 seconds, and then send its first
   port mapping request.  After that request is acknowledged by the
   gateway, the client may then send its second request, and so on, as
   rapidly as the gateway allows.  The requests SHOULD be issued
   serially, one at a time; the client SHOULD NOT issue multiple
   concurrent requests.

   The discussion in this section focuses on recreating inbound port
   mappings after loss of NAT gateway state, because that is the more
   serious problem.  Losing port mappings for outgoing connections
   destroys those currently active connections, but does not prevent
   clients from establishing new outgoing connections.  In contrast,
   losing inbound port mappings not only destroys all existing inbound
   connections, but also prevents the reception of any new inbound
   connections until the port mapping is recreated.  Accordingly, we
   consider recovery of inbound port mappings more important.  However,
   clients that want outgoing connections to survive a NAT gateway
   reboot can also achieve that using NAT-PMP, in the common case of a
   residential NAT gateway with a single, relatively stable, external IP
   address.  After initiating an outbound TCP connection (which will
   cause the NAT gateway to establish an implicit port mapping), the
   client should send the NAT gateway a port mapping request for the
   source port of its TCP connection, which will cause the NAT gateway
   to send a response giving the external port it allocated for that
   mapping.  The client can then store this information, and use it
   later to recreate the mapping if it determines that the NAT gateway
   has lost its mapping state.

