4.3.1.  NAT behind NAT

   Some people's primary IPv4 address, assigned by their ISP, may itself
   be a NAT address.  In addition, some people may have an external IPv4
   address, but may then double NAT themselves, perhaps by choice or
   perhaps by accident.  Although it might be possible in principle for
   one NAT gateway to recursively request a mapping from the next one,
   this document does not advocate that and does not try to prescribe
   how it would be done.

   It would be a lot of work to implement nested NAT port mapping
   correctly, and there are a number of reasons why the end result might
   not be as useful as we might hope.  Consider the case of an ISP that
   offers each of its customers only a single NAT address.  This ISP
   could instead have chosen to provide each customer with a single
   public IPv4 address, or, if the ISP insists on running NAT, it could
   have chosen to allow each customer a reasonable number of addresses,
   enough for each customer device to have its own NAT address directly
   from the ISP.  If, instead, this ISP chooses to allow each customer
   just one and only one NAT address, forcing said customer to run
   nested NAT in order to use more than one device, it seems unlikely
   that such an ISP would be so obliging as to provide a NAT service
   that supports NAT-PMP.  Supposing that such an ISP did wish to offer
   its customers NAT service with NAT-PMP so as to give them the ability
   to receive inbound connections, this ISP could easily choose to allow
   each client to request a reasonable number of DHCP addresses from
   that gateway.  Remember that Net 10/8 [RFC1918] allows for over 16
   million addresses, so NAT addresses are not in any way in short
   supply.  A single NAT gateway with 16 million available addresses is
   likely to run out of packet forwarding capacity before it runs out of
   internal addresses to hand out.  In this way, the ISP could offer
   single-level NAT with NAT-PMP, obviating the need to support nested
   NAT-PMP.  In addition, an ISP that is motivated to provide their
   customers with unhindered access to the Internet by allowing incoming
   as well as outgoing connections has better ways to offer this



Cheshire & Krochmal           Informational                    [Page 21]

RFC 6886                         NAT-PMP                      April 2013


   service.  Such an ISP could offer its customers real public IPv4
   addresses instead of NAT addresses, or could choose to offer its
   customers full IPv6 connectivity, where no mapping or translation is
   required at all.

   Note: In the nine years since NAT-PMP was designed, the pool of
   available IPv4 addresses has been exhausted, and many ISPs now offer
   translated IPv4 addresses out of necessity.  Such ISPs have indicated
   a willingness to offer PCP service to their customers.

