8.  Deployment History

   In August 2004, NAT-PMP client software first became available to the
   public through Apple's Darwin Open Source code.  In April 2005,
   NAT-PMP implementations began shipping to end users with the launch
   of Mac OS X 10.4 Tiger and Bonjour for Windows 1.0, and in June 2005
   the protocol was first publicly documented in the original draft
   version of this document.

   The NAT-PMP client in Mac OS X 10.4 Tiger and Bonjour for Windows
   exists as part of the mDNSResponder/mdnsd system service.  When a
   client advertises a service using Wide Area Bonjour [RFC6763], and
   the machine is behind a NAT-PMP-capable NAT gateway, and the machine
   is so configured, the mDNSResponder system service automatically uses
   NAT-PMP to set up an inbound port mapping, and then records the
   external IPv4 address and port in the global DNS.  Existing client
   software using the Bonjour programming APIs [Bonjour] got this new
   NAT traversal functionality automatically.  The logic behind this
   decision was that if client software publishes its information into
   the global DNS via Wide Area Bonjour service advertising, then it's
   reasonable to infer an expectation that this information should
   actually be usable by the peers retrieving it.  Generally speaking,
   recording a private IPv4 address like 10.0.0.2 in the public DNS is
   likely to be pointless because that address is not reachable from
   clients on the other side of the NAT gateway.  In the case of a home
   user with a single computer directly connected to their Cable or DSL
   modem, with a single global IPv4 address and no NAT gateway (a common
   configuration at that time), publishing the machine's global IPv4
   address into the global DNS is useful, because that IPv4 address is
   globally reachable.  In contrast, a home user using a NAT gateway to
   share a single global IPv4 address between several computers loses
   this ability to receive inbound connections.  This breaks many peer-
   to-peer collaborative applications, like the multi-user text editor
   SubEthaEdit [SEE].  For many users, moving from one computer with a
   global IPv4 address, to two computers using NAT to share a single
   global IPv4 address, loss of inbound reachability was an unwanted
   side effect of using NAT for address sharing.  Automatically creating
   the necessary inbound port mappings helped remedy this unwanted side
   effect of NAT.

   The server side of the NAT-PMP protocol is implemented in Apple's
   AirPort Extreme, AirPort Express, and Time Capsule wireless base
   stations, and in the Internet Sharing feature of Mac OS X 10.4 and
   later.  Some third-party NAT vendors, such as Peplink, also offer
   NAT-PMP in their products.






Cheshire & Krochmal           Informational                    [Page 25]

RFC 6886                         NAT-PMP                      April 2013


   In Mac OS X 10.4 Tiger, the NAT-PMP client was invoked automatically
   as a side effect of clients requesting Wide Area Bonjour service
   registrations.  Using NAT-PMP without an associated Wide Area Bonjour
   service registration required use of a third-party client library.

   In October 2007, Mac OS X 10.5 Leopard added the "DNSServiceNATPort-
   MappingCreate" API, which made NAT-PMP client functionality directly
   available, so software could use it with other directory and
   rendezvous mechanisms in addition to Wide Area Bonjour DNS Updates.

   In 2013, NAT-PMP was superseded by the IETF Standards Track Port
   Control Protocol [RFC6887].  PCP builds on NAT-PMP and uses a
   compatible packet format, and adds a number of significant
   enhancements, including IPv6 support, management of outbound
   mappings, management of firewall rules, full compatibility with
   large-scale NATs with a pool of external addresses, error lifetimes,
   and an extension mechanism to enable future enhancements.

