9.  Noteworthy Features of NAT Port Mapping Protocol and PCP

   Some readers have asked how NAT-PMP and PCP compare to other similar
   solutions, particularly the UPnP Forum's Internet Gateway Device
   (IGD) Device Control Protocol [IGD].

   The answer is that although the Universal Plug and Play (UPnP) IGD
   protocol is often used as a way for client devices to create port
   mappings programmatically, it's not ideal for that task.  Whereas
   NAT-PMP was explicitly designed to be used primarily by software
   entities managing their own port mappings, UPnP IGD is more tailored
   towards being used by humans configuring all the settings of their
   gateway using some GUI tool.  This difference in emphasis leads to
   protocol differences.  For example, while it is reasonable and
   sensible to require software entities to renew their mappings
   periodically to prove that they are still there (like a device
   renewing its DHCP address lease), it would be unreasonable to require
   the same thing of a human user.  When a human user configures their
   gateway, they expect it to stay configured that way until they decide
   to change it.  If they configure a port mapping, they expect it to
   stay configured until they decide to delete it.

   Because of this focus on being a general administration protocol for
   all aspects of home gateway configuration, UPnP IGD is a large and
   complicated collection of protocols (360 pages of specification
   spread over 13 separate documents, not counting supporting protocol
   specifications like Simple Service Discovery Protocol (SSDP) and
   Extensible Markup Language (XML)).  While it may be a fine way for





Cheshire & Krochmal           Informational                    [Page 26]

RFC 6886                         NAT-PMP                      April 2013


   human users to configure their home gateways, it is not especially
   suited to the task of programmatically creating dynamic port
   mappings.

   The requirements for a good port mapping protocol, requirements that
   are met by NAT-PMP, are outlined below.

