9.5.  Garbage Collection

   In any system that operates for a long period of time (as a home
   gateway should), it is important that garbage data does not
   accumulate indefinitely until the system runs out of memory and
   fails.

   Similar to how DHCP leases an IP address to a client for a finite
   length of time, NAT-PMP leases an external port to a client for a
   finite length of time.  The NAT-PMP client must renew the port
   mapping before it expires, or, like an unrenewed DHCP address, it
   will be reclaimed.  If a laptop computer is abruptly disconnected



Cheshire & Krochmal           Informational                    [Page 29]

RFC 6886                         NAT-PMP                      April 2013


   from the network without the opportunity to delete its port mappings,
   the NAT gateway will reclaim those mappings when they are not
   renewed.

   In principle, UPnP IGD should allow clients to specify a lifetime on
   port mappings.  However, a Google search for "UPnP NewLeaseDuration"
   shows that in practice pretty much every client uses
   "<NewLeaseDuration>0</NewLeaseDuration>" to request an infinite
   lease, and the protocol has no way for the NAT gateway to decline
   that infinite lease request and require the client to renew it at
   reasonable intervals.  Furthermore, anecdotal evidence is that if the
   client requests a lease other than zero, there are IGD home gateways
   that will ignore the request, fail in other ways, or even crash
   completely.  As a client implementer then, you would be well advised
   not to attempt to request a lease other than zero, unless you want to
   suffer the support costs and bad publicity of lots of people
   complaining that your device brought down their entire network.

   Because none of the early UPnP IGD clients requested port mapping
   leases, many UPnP IGD home gateway vendors never tested that
   functionality, and got away with shipping home gateways where that
   functionality was buggy or nonexistent.  Because there are so many
   buggy UPnP IGD home gateways already deployed, client writers wisely
   stick to the well-trodden path of only requesting infinite leases.
   Because there are now few (if any) clients attempting to request non-
   zero leases, home gateway vendors have little incentive to expend
   resources implementing a feature no one uses.

   This unfortunate consequence of the way UPnP IGD was developed and
   deployed means that in practice it has no usable port mapping lease
   facility today, and therefore when run for a long period of time UPnP
   IGD home gateways have no good way to avoid accumulating an unbounded
   number of stale port mappings.

