1.  Introduction

   Network Address Translation (NAT) is a method of sharing one public
   Internet address with a number of devices.  This document is focused
   on devices that are formally classified as "NAPTs" (Network
   Address/Port Translators) [RFC2663].  A full description of NAT is
   beyond the scope of this document.  The following brief overview will
   cover the aspects relevant to this port mapping protocol.  For more
   information on NAT, see "Traditional IP Network Address Translator
   (Traditional NAT)" [RFC3022].

   NATs have one or more external IP addresses.  A private network is
   set up behind the NAT.  Client devices on that private network behind
   the NAT are assigned private addresses, and those client devices use
   the private address of the NAT device as their default gateway.

   When a packet from any device behind the NAT is sent to an address on
   the public Internet, the packet first passes through the NAT box.
   The NAT box looks at the source port and address.  In some cases, a
   NAT will also keep track of the destination port and address.  The
   NAT then creates a mapping from the internal address and internal
   port to an external address and external port if a mapping does not
   already exist.

   The NAT box replaces the internal address and port in the packet with
   the external entries from the mapping and sends the packet on to the
   next gateway.

   When a packet from any address on the Internet is received on the
   NAT's external side, the NAT will look up the destination address and
   port (external address and port) in the list of mappings.  If an
   entry is found, it will contain the internal address and port to
   which the packet should be sent.  The NAT gateway will then rewrite
   the destination address and port with those from the mapping.  The
   packet will then be forwarded to the new destination addresses.  If
   the packet did not match any mapping, the packet will most likely be
   dropped.  Various NATs implement different strategies to handle this.
   The important thing to note is that if there is no mapping, the NAT
   does not know to which internal address the packet should be sent.

   Mappings are usually created automatically as a result of observing
   outbound packets.  There are a few exceptions.  Some NATs may allow
   manually created permanent mappings that map an external port to a
   specific internal IP address and port.  Such a mapping allows
   incoming connections to the device with that internal address.  Some
   NATs also implement a default mapping where any inbound packet that





Cheshire & Krochmal           Informational                     [Page 3]

RFC 6886                         NAT-PMP                      April 2013


   does not match any other more specific mapping will be forwarded to a
   specified internal address.  Both types of mappings are usually set
   up manually through some configuration tool.  Such manual
   configuration of port mappings is unreasonably onerous for most
   residential NAT users.

   Without these manually created inbound port mappings, clients behind
   the NAT would be unable to receive inbound connections, which
   represents a loss of connectivity when compared to the original
   Internet architecture [ETEAISD].  For those who view this loss of
   connectivity as a bad thing, NAT-PMP allows clients to operate more
   like a host directly connected to the unrestricted public Internet,
   with an unrestricted public IPv4 address.  NAT-PMP allows client
   hosts to communicate with the NAT gateway to request the creation of
   inbound mappings on demand.  Having created a NAT mapping to allow
   inbound connections, the client can then record its external IPv4
   address and external port in a public registry (e.g., the worldwide
   Domain Name System) or otherwise make it accessible to peers that
   wish to communicate with it.

