3.  Protocol and Packet Format

   The NAT Port Mapping Protocol runs over UDP.  Every packet starts
   with an 8-bit version followed by an 8-bit operation code.

   All numeric quantities in NAT-PMP larger than a single byte (e.g.,
   error values, Seconds Since Start of Epoch, and mapping lifetime) are
   transmitted in the traditional IETF network byte order (i.e., most
   significant byte first).

   Non-numeric quantities in NAT-PMP larger than a single byte (e.g.,
   the NAT gateway's external IP address) are transmitted in the natural
   byte order, with no byte swapping.

   This document specifies version 0 of the protocol.  Any NAT-PMP
   gateway implementing this version of the protocol, receiving a
   request with a version number other than 0, MUST return result code 1
   (Unsupported Version), indicating the highest version number it does
   support (i.e., 0) in the version field of the response.





Cheshire & Krochmal           Informational                     [Page 5]

RFC 6886                         NAT-PMP                      April 2013


   Opcodes between 0 and 127 are client requests.  Opcodes from 128 to
   255 are corresponding server responses.  Responses always contain a
   16-bit result code in network byte order.  A result code of zero
   indicates success.  Responses also contain a 32-bit unsigned integer
   corresponding to the number of seconds since the NAT gateway was
   rebooted or since its port mapping state was otherwise reset.

   This protocol SHOULD only be used when the client determines that its
   primary IPv4 address is in one of the private IPv4 address ranges
   defined in "Address Allocation for Private Internets" [RFC1918].
   This includes the address ranges 10/8, 172.16/12, and 192.168/16.

   Clients always send their NAT-PMP requests to their default gateway,
   as learned via DHCP [RFC2131], or similar means.  This protocol is
   designed for small home networks, with a single logical link (subnet)
   where the client's default gateway is also the NAT for that network.
   For more complicated networks where the NAT is some device other than
   the client's default gateway, this protocol is not appropriate.

