3.2.1.  Announcing Address Changes

   Upon boot, acquisition of an external IPv4 address, subsequent change
   of the external IPv4 address, reboot, or any other event that may
   indicate possible loss or change of NAT mapping state, the NAT
   gateway MUST send a gratuitous response to the link-local multicast
   address 224.0.0.1, port 5350, with the packet format above, to notify
   clients of the external IPv4 address and Seconds Since Start of
   Epoch.

   To accommodate packet loss, the NAT gateway SHOULD multicast 10
   address notifications.  The interval between the first two
   notifications SHOULD be 250 ms, and the interval between each
   subsequent notification SHOULD double.  The Seconds Since Start of
   Epoch field in each transmission MUST be updated appropriately to
   reflect the passage of time, so as not to trigger unnecessary
   additional mapping renewals (see Section 3.7, "Recreating Mappings on
   NAT Gateway Reboot").





Cheshire & Krochmal           Informational                     [Page 8]

RFC 6886                         NAT-PMP                      April 2013


   Upon receiving a gratuitous address announcement packet, the client
   MUST check the source IP address, and silently discard the packet if
   the address is not the address of the client's current configured
   gateway.  This is to guard against inadvertent misconfigurations
   where there may be more than one NAT gateway active on the network.

   If the source IP address is correct, then the Seconds Since Start of
   Epoch field is checked as described in Section 3.6, and if the value
   is outside the expected plausible range, indicating that a NAT
   gateway state loss has occurred, then the NAT-PMP client promptly
   recreates all its active port mapping leases, as described in Section
   3.7, "Recreating Mappings on NAT Gateway Reboot".

   IMPLEMENTATION NOTE: Earlier implementations of NAT-PMP used UDP port
   5351 as the destination both for client requests (address and port
   mapping) and for address announcements.  NAT-PMP servers would listen
   on UDP 5351 for client requests, and NAT-PMP clients would listen on
   UDP 5351 for server announcements.  However, implementers encountered
   difficulties when a single device is acting in both roles, for
   example, a home computer with Internet Sharing enabled.  This
   computer is acting in the role of NAT-PMP server to its DHCP clients,
   yet, at the same time, it has to act in the role of NAT-PMP client in
   order to determine whether it is, itself, behind another NAT gateway.
   While in principle it might be possible on some operating systems for
   two processes to coordinate sharing of a single UDP port, on many
   platforms this is difficult or even impossible, so, for pragmatic
   engineering reasons, it is convenient to have clients listen on UDP
   5350 and servers listen on UDP 5351.

   IMPLEMENTATION NOTE: A given host may have more than one independent
   NAT-PMP client running at the same time, and address announcements
   need to be available to all of them.  Clients should therefore set
   the SO_REUSEPORT option or equivalent in order to allow other
   processes to also listen on port 5350.  Additionally, implementers
   have encountered issues when one or more processes on the same device
   listen to port 5350 on *all* addresses.  Clients should therefore
   bind specifically to 224.0.0.1:5350, not to 0.0.0.0:5350.














Cheshire & Krochmal           Informational                     [Page 9]

RFC 6886                         NAT-PMP                      April 2013


