3.8.  NAT Gateways with NAT Function Disabled

   Note that only devices that are *currently* acting in the role of NAT
   gateway should participate in NAT-PMP protocol exchanges with
   clients.  A network device that is capable of NAT (and NAT-PMP) but



Cheshire & Krochmal           Informational                    [Page 18]

RFC 6886                         NAT-PMP                      April 2013


   is currently configured not to perform that function (e.g., it is
   acting as a traditional IP router, forwarding packets without
   modifying them) MUST NOT respond to NAT-PMP requests from clients nor
   send spontaneous NAT-PMP address-change announcements.

   In particular, a network device not currently acting in the role of
   NAT gateway should not even respond to NAT-PMP requests by returning
   an error code such as 2, "Not Authorized/Refused", since to do so is
   misleading to clients -- it suggests that NAT port mapping is
   necessary on this network for the client to successfully receive
   inbound connections, but is not available because the administrator
   has chosen to disable that functionality.

   Clients should also be careful to avoid making unfounded assumptions,
   such as the assumption that if the client has an IPv4 address in one
   of the private IPv4 address ranges [RFC1918], then that means NAT
   necessarily must be in use.  Net 10/8 has enough addresses to build a
   private network with millions of hosts and thousands of
   interconnected subnets, all without any use of NAT.  Many
   organizations have built such private networks that benefit from
   using standard TCP/IP technology, but by choice do not connect to the
   public Internet.  The purpose of NAT-PMP is to mitigate some of the
   damage caused by NAT.  It would be an ironic and unwanted side effect
   of this protocol if it were to lead well-meaning but misguided
   developers to create products that refuse to work on a private
   network *unless* they can find a NAT gateway to talk to.
   Consequently, a client finding that NAT-PMP is not available on its
   network should not give up, but should proceed on the assumption that
   the network may be a traditional routed IP network, with no address
   translation being used.  This assumption may not always be true, but
   it is better than the alternative of falsely assuming the worst and
   not even trying to use normal (non-NAT) IP networking.

   If a network device not currently acting in the role of NAT gateway
   receives UDP packets addressed to port 5351, it SHOULD respond
   immediately with an "ICMP Port Unreachable" message to tell the
   client that it needn't continue with timeouts and retransmissions,
   and it should assume that NAT-PMP is not available and not needed on
   this network.  Typically, this behavior can be achieved merely by not
   having an open socket listening on UDP port 5351.

