5.  Security Considerations

   As discussed in Section 3.2, "Determining the External Address", only
   a client on the internal side of the NAT may create port mappings,
   and it may do so only on its own behalf.  By using IP address
   spoofing, it's possible for one client to delete the port mappings of
   another client.  It's also possible for one client to create port
   mappings on behalf of another client.  In cases where this is a
   concern, it can be dealt with using IPsec [RFC4301].

   The multicast announcements described in Section 3.2.1, "Announcing
   Address Changes", could be spoofed, facilitating a denial-of-service
   attack.  This makes NAT-PMP unsuitable for use on LANs with large
   numbers of hosts where one or more of the hosts may be untrustworthy.

   Another concern is that rogue software running on a local host could
   create port mappings for unsuspecting hosts, thereby rendering them
   vulnerable to external attack.  However, it's not clear how realistic
   this threat model is, since rogue software on a local host could



Cheshire & Krochmal           Informational                    [Page 23]

RFC 6886                         NAT-PMP                      April 2013


   attack such unsuspecting hosts directly itself, without resorting to
   such a convoluted indirect technique.  This concern is also a little
   misguided because it is based on the assumption that a NAT gateway
   and a firewall are the same thing, which they are not.

   Some people view the property of NATs blocking inbound connections as
   a security benefit that is undermined by this protocol.  The authors
   of this document have a different point of view.  In the days before
   NAT became prevalent, all hosts had unique public IP addresses, and
   had unhindered ability to communicate with any other host on the
   Internet (a configuration that is still surprisingly common).  Using
   NAT breaks this unhindered connectivity, relegating hosts to second-
   class status, unable to receive inbound connections.  This protocol
   goes some way to partially reverse that damage.  The purpose of a NAT
   gateway should be to allow several hosts to share a single address,
   not to simultaneously impede those host's ability to communicate
   freely.  Security is most properly provided by end-to-end
   cryptographic security, and/or by explicit firewall functionality, as
   appropriate.  Blocking of certain connections should occur only as a
   result of explicit and intentional firewall policy, not as an
   accidental side effect of some other technology.

   However, since many users do have an expectation that their NAT
   gateways can function as a kind of firewall, any NAT gateway
   implementing this protocol SHOULD have an administrative mechanism to
   disable it, thereby restoring the pre-NAT-PMP behavior.

