9.3.  Efficiency

   In addition to low-cost home gateways, many of the clients will also
   be similarly constrained low-cost devices with limited RAM resources.

   When implementing a NAT-PMP client on a constrained device, it's
   beneficial to have well-defined bounds on RAM requirements that are
   fixed and known in advance.  For example, when requesting the
   gateway's external IPv4 address, a NAT-PMP client on Ethernet knows





Cheshire & Krochmal           Informational                    [Page 27]

RFC 6886                         NAT-PMP                      April 2013


   that to receive the reply it will require 14 bytes for the Ethernet
   header, 20 bytes for the IPv4 header, 8 bytes for the UDP header, and
   12 bytes for the NAT-PMP payload, making a total of 54 bytes.

   In contrast, UPnP IGD uses an XML reply of unbounded size.  It is not
   uncommon for a UPnP IGD device to return an XML document 4000 to 8000
   bytes in size to communicate its 4-byte external IPv4 address, and
   the protocol specification places no upper bound on how large the XML
   response may be, so there's nothing to stop the reply being even
   larger.  This means that developers of UPnP client devices can only
   guess at how much memory they may need to receive the XML reply.
   Operational experience suggests that 10,000 bytes is usually enough
   for most UPnP IGD home gateways today, but that's no guarantee that
   some future UPnP IGD home gateway might not return a perfectly legal
   XML reply much larger than that.

   In addition, because the XML reply is too large to fit in a single
   UDP packet, UPnP IGD has to use a TCP connection, thereby adding the
   overhead of TCP connection setup and teardown.

   The process of discovering a UPnP IGD home gateway's external IPv4
   address consists of:

   o SSDP transaction to discover the TCP port to use, and the "URL" of
     the XML document to fetch from the gateway.  Following the SSDP
     specification, this is 3 multicast requests, eliciting 9 unicast
     responses.

   o HTTP "GET" request to get the device description.  Typically, 16
     packets: 3 for TCP connection setup, 9 packets of data exchange,
     and a 4-packet FIN-ACK-FIN-ACK sequence to close the connection.

   o HTTP "POST" to request the external IPv4 address.  Typically, 14
     packets: 3 for TCP connection setup, 7 packets of data exchange,
     and a 4-packet FIN-ACK-FIN-ACK sequence to close the connection.

   To retrieve the external IPv4 address NAT-PMP takes a 2-packet UDP
   exchange (44-byte request, 54-byte response); the same thing using
   UPnP IGD takes 42 packets and thousands of bytes.

   Similarly, UPnP IGD's HTTP "POST" request for a port mapping is
   typically a 14-packet exchange, compared with NAT-PMP's 2-packet UDP
   exchange.








Cheshire & Krochmal           Informational                    [Page 28]

RFC 6886                         NAT-PMP                      April 2013


