9.4.  Atomic Allocation Operations

   Some of the useful properties of NAT-PMP were inspired by DHCP, a
   reliable and successful protocol.  For example, DHCP allows a client
   to request a desired IP address, but if that address is already in
   use the DHCP server will instead assign some other available address.

   Correspondingly, NAT-PMP allows a client to request a desired
   external port, and if that external port is already in use by some
   other client, the NAT-PMP server will instead assign some other
   available external port.

   UPnP IGD does not do this.  If a UPnP IGD client requests an external
   port that has already been allocated, then one of two things happens.

   Some UPnP IGD home gateways just silently overwrite the old mapping
   with the new one, causing the previous client to lose connectivity.
   If the previous client renews its port mapping, then it in turn
   overwrites the new mapping, and the two clients fight over the same
   external port indefinitely, neither achieving reliable connectivity.

   Other IGD home gateways return a "Conflict" error if the port is
   already in use, which does at least tell the client what happened,
   but doesn't tell the client what to do.  Instead of the NAT gateway
   (which does know which ports are available) assigning one to the
   client, the NAT gateway makes the client (which doesn't know) keep
   guessing until it gets lucky.  This problem remains mild as long as
   not many clients are using UPnP IGD, but gets progressively worse as
   the number of clients on the network requesting port mappings goes
   up.  In addition, UPnP IGD works particularly badly in conjunction
   with the emerging policy of allocating pre-assigned port ranges to
   each client.  If a client is assigned TCP port range 63488-64511, and
   the UPnP IGD client requests TCP port 80, trying successive
   incrementing ports until it succeeds, then the UPnP IGD client will
   have to issue 63,409 requests before it succeeds.

