9.8.  On-Path NAT Discovery

   For any given host, it is only useful to request NAT port mappings in
   the NAT gateway through which that host's packets are flowing.  A NAT
   port mapping is a request for packets to be translated in a certain
   way; the NAT gateway can only perform that translation if it's
   actually forwarding inbound and outbound packets for that host.

   This is why NAT-PMP sends its requests to the host's default router,
   since this is the device that is forwarding (and possibly
   translating) inbound and outbound packets for that host.  (In a
   larger network with multiple hops between a host and its NAT gateway,
   some other mechanism would need to be used to discover the correct
   on-path NAT for a host; this is possible, but outside the scope of
   this document.)

   In contrast, UPnP IGD does not limit itself to using only on-path
   NATs.  UPnP IGD uses a multicast SSDP query, and uses any device it
   finds on the local network claiming UPnP IGD capability, regardless
   of whether any inbound or outbound traffic is actually flowing
   through that device.  Over the past few years this led to many bug
   reports being sent to Apple with the general form: "Port Mapping
   doesn't work on my Mac and that's a bug because everything else on my
   network says UPnP IGD is working fine." Upon investigation it always
   turned out that: (i) these people had NAT gateways that either didn't
   support port mapping requests, or had that capability disabled, and
   (ii) for some reason they also had some other old NAT device still



Cheshire & Krochmal           Informational                    [Page 31]

RFC 6886                         NAT-PMP                      April 2013


   connected to their network, and those other NAT devices were
   advertising UPnP IGD capability, even though they were not the active
   NAT gateway for the network.  This led to UPnP IGD clients falsely
   reporting that they were "working fine", and only the Mac correctly
   reporting that it was unable to make any useful port mappings.  In
   many cases the people reporting this "bug" had devices like game
   consoles on their home network that for many years had been reporting
   that UPnP IGD was "working fine", yet during those years they had
   never once successfully received any inbound network packet or
   connection.  The irony is that, for these people who were reporting
   bugs to Apple, UPnP IGD "working fine" had been indistinguishable
   from UPnP IGD doing nothing useful at all.  It was only when Back to
   My Mac [RFC6281] started reporting that it was unable to make any
   functional port mappings that these people discovered they'd never
   had any working port mappings on their NAT gateway.

