1. INTRODUCTION

   The TCP protocol [Postel81] was designed to operate reliably over
   almost any transmission medium regardless of transmission rate,
   delay, corruption, duplication, or reordering of segments.
   Production TCP implementations currently adapt to transfer rates in
   the range of 100 bps to 10**7 bps and round-trip delays in the range
   1 ms to 100 seconds.  Recent work on TCP performance has shown that
   TCP can work well over a variety of Internet paths, ranging from 800
   Mbit/sec I/O channels to 300 bit/sec dial-up modems [Jacobson88a].

   The introduction of fiber optics is resulting in ever-higher
   transmission speeds, and the fastest paths are moving out of the
   domain for which TCP was originally engineered.  This memo defines a
   set of modest extensions to TCP to extend the domain of its
   application to match this increasing network capability.  It is based
   upon and obsoletes RFC-1072 [Jacobson88b] and RFC-1185 [Jacobson90b].

   There is no one-line answer to the question: "How fast can TCP go?".
   There are two separate kinds of issues, performance and reliability,
   and each depends upon different parameters.  We discuss each in turn.

   1.1  TCP Performance

      TCP performance depends not upon the transfer rate itself, but
      rather upon the product of the transfer rate and the round-trip
      delay.  This "bandwidth*delay product" measures the amount of data
      that would "fill the pipe"; it is the buffer space required at
      sender and receiver to obtain maximum throughput on the TCP
      connection over the path, i.e., the amount of unacknowledged data
      that TCP must handle in order to keep the pipeline full.  TCP
      performance problems arise when the bandwidth*delay product is
      large.  We refer to an Internet path operating in this region as a
      "long, fat pipe", and a network containing this path as an "LFN"
      (pronounced "elephan(t)").

      High-capacity packet satellite channels (e.g., DARPA's Wideband
      Net) are LFN's.  For example, a DS1-speed satellite channel has a
      bandwidth*delay product of 10**6 bits or more; this corresponds to
      100 outstanding TCP segments of 1200 bytes each.  Terrestrial
      fiber-optical paths will also fall into the LFN class; for
      example, a cross-country delay of 30 ms at a DS3 bandwidth
      (45Mbps) also exceeds 10**6 bits.

      There are three fundamental performance problems with the current
      TCP over LFN paths:



Jacobson, Braden, & Borman                                      [Page 2]

RFC 1323          TCP Extensions for High Performance           May 1992


      (1)  Window Size Limit

           The TCP header uses a 16 bit field to report the receive
           window size to the sender.  Therefore, the largest window
           that can be used is 2**16 = 65K bytes.

           To circumvent this problem, Section 2 of this memo defines a
           new TCP option, "Window Scale", to allow windows larger than
           2**16.  This option defines an implicit scale factor, which
           is used to multiply the window size value found in a TCP
           header to obtain the true window size.

      (2)  Recovery from Losses

           Packet losses in an LFN can have a catastrophic effect on
           throughput.  Until recently, properly-operating TCP
           implementations would cause the data pipeline to drain with
           every packet loss, and require a slow-start action to
           recover.  Recently, the Fast Retransmit and Fast Recovery
           algorithms [Jacobson90c] have been introduced.  Their
           combined effect is to recover from one packet loss per
           window, without draining the pipeline.  However, more than
           one packet loss per window typically results in a
           retransmission timeout and the resulting pipeline drain and
           slow start.

           Expanding the window size to match the capacity of an LFN
           results in a corresponding increase of the probability of
           more than one packet per window being dropped.  This could
           have a devastating effect upon the throughput of TCP over an
           LFN.  In addition, if a congestion control mechanism based
           upon some form of random dropping were introduced into
           gateways, randomly spaced packet drops would become common,
           possible increasing the probability of dropping more than one
           packet per window.

           To generalize the Fast Retransmit/Fast Recovery mechanism to
           handle multiple packets dropped per window, selective
           acknowledgments are required.  Unlike the normal cumulative
           acknowledgments of TCP, selective acknowledgments give the
           sender a complete picture of which segments are queued at the
           receiver and which have not yet arrived.  Some evidence in
           favor of selective acknowledgments has been published
           [NBS85], and selective acknowledgments have been included in
           a number of experimental Internet protocols -- VMTP
           [Cheriton88], NETBLT [Clark87], and RDP [Velten84], and
           proposed for OSI TP4 [NBS85].  However, in the non-LFN
           regime, selective acknowledgments reduce the number of



Jacobson, Braden, & Borman                                      [Page 3]

RFC 1323          TCP Extensions for High Performance           May 1992


           packets retransmitted but do not otherwise improve
           performance, making their complexity of questionable value.
           However, selective acknowledgments are expected to become
           much more important in the LFN regime.

           RFC-1072 defined a new TCP "SACK" option to send a selective
           acknowledgment.  However, there are important technical
           issues to be worked out concerning both the format and
           semantics of the SACK option.  Therefore, SACK has been
           omitted from this package of extensions.  It is hoped that
           SACK can "catch up" during the standardization process.

      (3)  Round-Trip Measurement

           TCP implements reliable data delivery by retransmitting
           segments that are not acknowledged within some retransmission
           timeout (RTO) interval.  Accurate dynamic determination of an
           appropriate RTO is essential to TCP performance.  RTO is
           determined by estimating the mean and variance of the
           measured round-trip time (RTT), i.e., the time interval
           between sending a segment and receiving an acknowledgment for
           it [Jacobson88a].

           Section 4 introduces a new TCP option, "Timestamps", and then
           defines a mechanism using this option that allows nearly
           every segment, including retransmissions, to be timed at
           negligible computational cost.  We use the mnemonic RTTM
           (Round Trip Time Measurement) for this mechanism, to
           distinguish it from other uses of the Timestamps option.


   1.2 TCP Reliability

      Now we turn from performance to reliability.  High transfer rate
      enters TCP performance through the bandwidth*delay product.
      However, high transfer rate alone can threaten TCP reliability by
      violating the assumptions behind the TCP mechanism for duplicate
      detection and sequencing.

      An especially serious kind of error may result from an accidental
      reuse of TCP sequence numbers in data segments.  Suppose that an
      "old duplicate segment", e.g., a duplicate data segment that was
      delayed in Internet queues, is delivered to the receiver at the
      wrong moment, so that its sequence numbers falls somewhere within
      the current window.  There would be no checksum failure to warn of
      the error, and the result could be an undetected corruption of the
      data.  Reception of an old duplicate ACK segment at the
      transmitter could be only slightly less serious: it is likely to



Jacobson, Braden, & Borman                                      [Page 4]

RFC 1323          TCP Extensions for High Performance           May 1992


      lock up the connection so that no further progress can be made,
      forcing an RST on the connection.

      TCP reliability depends upon the existence of a bound on the
      lifetime of a segment: the "Maximum Segment Lifetime" or MSL.  An
      MSL is generally required by any reliable transport protocol,
      since every sequence number field must be finite, and therefore
      any sequence number may eventually be reused.  In the Internet
      protocol suite, the MSL bound is enforced by an IP-layer
      mechanism, the "Time-to-Live" or TTL field.

      Duplication of sequence numbers might happen in either of two
      ways:

      (1)  Sequence number wrap-around on the current connection

           A TCP sequence number contains 32 bits.  At a high enough
           transfer rate, the 32-bit sequence space may be "wrapped"
           (cycled) within the time that a segment is delayed in queues.

      (2)  Earlier incarnation of the connection

           Suppose that a connection terminates, either by a proper
           close sequence or due to a host crash, and the same
           connection (i.e., using the same pair of sockets) is
           immediately reopened.  A delayed segment from the terminated
           connection could fall within the current window for the new
           incarnation and be accepted as valid.

      Duplicates from earlier incarnations, Case (2), are avoided by
      enforcing the current fixed MSL of the TCP spec, as explained in
      Section 5.3 and Appendix B.   However, case (1), avoiding the
      reuse of sequence numbers within the same connection, requires an
      MSL bound that depends upon the transfer rate, and at high enough
      rates, a new mechanism is required.

      More specifically, if the maximum effective bandwidth at which TCP
      is able to transmit over a particular path is B bytes per second,
      then the following constraint must be satisfied for error-free
      operation:

          2**31 / B  > MSL (secs)                     [1]

      The following table shows the value for Twrap = 2**31/B in
      seconds, for some important values of the bandwidth B:






Jacobson, Braden, & Borman                                      [Page 5]

RFC 1323          TCP Extensions for High Performance           May 1992


           Network       B*8          B         Twrap
                      bits/sec   bytes/sec      secs
           _______    _______      ______       ______

           ARPANET       56kbps       7KBps    3*10**5 (~3.6 days)

           DS1          1.5Mbps     190KBps    10**4 (~3 hours)

           Ethernet      10Mbps    1.25MBps    1700 (~30 mins)

           DS3           45Mbps     5.6MBps    380

           FDDI         100Mbps    12.5MBps    170

           Gigabit        1Gbps     125MBps    17


      It is clear that wrap-around of the sequence space is not a
      problem for 56kbps packet switching or even 10Mbps Ethernets.  On
      the other hand, at DS3 and FDDI speeds, Twrap is comparable to the
      2 minute MSL assumed by the TCP specification [Postel81].  Moving
      towards gigabit speeds, Twrap becomes too small for reliable
      enforcement by the Internet TTL mechanism.

      The 16-bit window field of TCP limits the effective bandwidth B to
      2**16/RTT, where RTT is the round-trip time in seconds
      [McKenzie89].  If the RTT is large enough, this limits B to a
      value that meets the constraint [1] for a large MSL value.  For
      example, consider a transcontinental backbone with an RTT of 60ms
      (set by the laws of physics).  With the bandwidth*delay product
      limited to 64KB by the TCP window size, B is then limited to
      1.1MBps, no matter how high the theoretical transfer rate of the
      path.  This corresponds to cycling the sequence number space in
      Twrap= 2000 secs, which is safe in today's Internet.

      It is important to understand that the culprit is not the larger
      window but rather the high bandwidth.  For example, consider a
      (very large) FDDI LAN with a diameter of 10km.  Using the speed of
      light, we can compute the RTT across the ring as
      (2*10**4)/(3*10**8) = 67 microseconds, and the delay*bandwidth
      product is then 833 bytes.  A TCP connection across this LAN using
      a window of only 833 bytes will run at the full 100mbps and can
      wrap the sequence space in about 3 minutes, very close to the MSL
      of TCP.  Thus, high speed alone can cause a reliability problem
      with sequence number wrap-around, even without extended windows.

      Watson's Delta-T protocol [Watson81] includes network-layer
      mechanisms for precise enforcement of an MSL.  In contrast, the IP



Jacobson, Braden, & Borman                                      [Page 6]

RFC 1323          TCP Extensions for High Performance           May 1992


      mechanism for MSL enforcement is loosely defined and even more
      loosely implemented in the Internet.  Therefore, it is unwise to
      depend upon active enforcement of MSL for TCP connections, and it
      is unrealistic to imagine setting MSL's smaller than the current
      values (e.g., 120 seconds specified for TCP).

      A possible fix for the problem of cycling the sequence space would
      be to increase the size of the TCP sequence number field.  For
      example, the sequence number field (and also the acknowledgment
      field) could be expanded to 64 bits.  This could be done either by
      changing the TCP header or by means of an additional option.

      Section 5 presents a different mechanism, which we call PAWS
      (Protect Against Wrapped Sequence numbers), to extend TCP
      reliability to transfer rates well beyond the foreseeable upper
      limit of network bandwidths.  PAWS uses the TCP Timestamps option
      defined in Section 4 to protect against old duplicates from the
      same connection.

   1.3 Using TCP options

      The extensions defined in this memo all use new TCP options.  We
      must address two possible issues concerning the use of TCP
      options: (1) compatibility and (2) overhead.

      We must pay careful attention to compatibility, i.e., to
      interoperation with existing implementations.  The only TCP option
      defined previously, MSS, may appear only on a SYN segment.  Every
      implementation should (and we expect that most will) ignore
      unknown options on SYN segments.  However, some buggy TCP
      implementation might be crashed by the first appearance of an
      option on a non-SYN segment.  Therefore, for each of the
      extensions defined below, TCP options will be sent on non-SYN
      segments only when an exchange of options on the SYN segments has
      indicated that both sides understand the extension.  Furthermore,
      an extension option will be sent in a <SYN,ACK> segment only if
      the corresponding option was received in the initial <SYN>
      segment.

      A question may be raised about the bandwidth and processing
      overhead for TCP options.  Those options that occur on SYN
      segments are not likely to cause a performance concern.  Opening a
      TCP connection requires execution of significant special-case
      code, and the processing of options is unlikely to increase that
      cost significantly.

      On the other hand, a Timestamps option may appear in any data or
      ACK segment, adding 12 bytes to the 20-byte TCP header.  We



Jacobson, Braden, & Borman                                      [Page 7]

RFC 1323          TCP Extensions for High Performance           May 1992


      believe that the bandwidth saved by reducing unnecessary
      retransmissions will more than pay for the extra header bandwidth.

      There is also an issue about the processing overhead for parsing
      the variable byte-aligned format of options, particularly with a
      RISC-architecture CPU.  To meet this concern, Appendix A contains
      a recommended layout of the options in TCP headers to achieve
      reasonable data field alignment.  In the spirit of Header
      Prediction, a TCP can quickly test for this layout and if it is
      verified then use a fast path.  Hosts that use this canonical
      layout will effectively use the options as a set of fixed-format
      fields appended to the TCP header.  However, to retain the
      philosophical and protocol framework of TCP options, a TCP must be
      prepared to parse an arbitrary options field, albeit with less
      efficiency.

      Finally, we observe that most of the mechanisms defined in this
      memo are important for LFN's and/or very high-speed networks.  For
      low-speed networks, it might be a performance optimization to NOT
      use these mechanisms.  A TCP vendor concerned about optimal
      performance over low-speed paths might consider turning these
      extensions off for low-speed paths, or allow a user or
      installation manager to disable them.


