4.  PAWS: PROTECT AGAINST WRAPPED SEQUENCE NUMBERS

   4.1  Introduction

      Section 4.2 describes a simple mechanism to reject old duplicate
      segments that might corrupt an open TCP connection; we call this
      mechanism PAWS (Protect Against Wrapped Sequence numbers).  PAWS
      operates within a single TCP connection, using state that is saved
      in the connection control block.  Section 4.3 and Appendix C
      discuss the implications of the PAWS mechanism for avoiding old
      duplicates from previous incarnations of the same connection.

   4.2  The PAWS Mechanism

      PAWS uses the same TCP Timestamps option as the RTTM mechanism
      described earlier, and assumes that every received TCP segment
      (including data and ACK segments) contains a timestamp SEG.TSval
      whose values are monotone non-decreasing in time.  The basic idea
      is that a segment can be discarded as an old duplicate if it is
      received with a timestamp SEG.TSval less than some timestamp
      recently received on this connection.

      In both the PAWS and the RTTM mechanism, the "timestamps" are 32-



Jacobson, Braden, & Borman                                     [Page 17]

RFC 1323          TCP Extensions for High Performance           May 1992


      bit unsigned integers in a modular 32-bit space.  Thus, "less
      than" is defined the same way it is for TCP sequence numbers, and
      the same implementation techniques apply.  If s and t are
      timestamp values, s < t if 0 < (t - s) < 2**31, computed in
      unsigned 32-bit arithmetic.

      The choice of incoming timestamps to be saved for this comparison
      must guarantee a value that is monotone increasing.  For example,
      we might save the timestamp from the segment that last advanced
      the left edge of the receive window, i.e., the most recent in-
      sequence segment.  Instead, we choose the value TS.Recent
      introduced in Section 3.4 for the RTTM mechanism, since using a
      common value for both PAWS and RTTM simplifies the implementation
      of both.  As Section 3.4 explained, TS.Recent differs from the
      timestamp from the last in-sequence segment only in the case of
      delayed ACKs, and therefore by less than one window.  Either
      choice will therefore protect against sequence number wrap-around.

      RTTM was specified in a symmetrical manner, so that TSval
      timestamps are carried in both data and ACK segments and are
      echoed in TSecr fields carried in returning ACK or data segments.
      PAWS submits all incoming segments to the same test, and therefore
      protects against duplicate ACK segments as well as data segments.
      (An alternative un-symmetric algorithm would protect against old
      duplicate ACKs: the sender of data would reject incoming ACK
      segments whose TSecr values were less than the TSecr saved from
      the last segment whose ACK field advanced the left edge of the
      send window.  This algorithm was deemed to lack economy of
      mechanism and symmetry.)

      TSval timestamps sent on {SYN} and {SYN,ACK} segments are used to
      initialize PAWS.  PAWS protects against old duplicate non-SYN
      segments, and duplicate SYN segments received while there is a
      synchronized connection.  Duplicate {SYN} and {SYN,ACK} segments
      received when there is no connection will be discarded by the
      normal 3-way handshake and sequence number checks of TCP.

      It is recommended that RST segments NOT carry timestamps, and that
      RST segments be acceptable regardless of their timestamp.  Old
      duplicate RST segments should be exceedingly unlikely, and their
      cleanup function should take precedence over timestamps.

      4.2.1  Basic PAWS Algorithm

         The PAWS algorithm requires the following processing to be
         performed on all incoming segments for a synchronized
         connection:




Jacobson, Braden, & Borman                                     [Page 18]

RFC 1323          TCP Extensions for High Performance           May 1992


         R1)  If there is a Timestamps option in the arriving segment
              and SEG.TSval < TS.Recent and if TS.Recent is valid (see
              later discussion), then treat the arriving segment as not
              acceptable:

                   Send an acknowledgement in reply as specified in
                   RFC-793 page 69 and drop the segment.

                   Note: it is necessary to send an ACK segment in order
                   to retain TCP's mechanisms for detecting and
                   recovering from half-open connections.  For example,
                   see Figure 10 of RFC-793.

         R2)  If the segment is outside the window, reject it (normal
              TCP processing)

         R3)  If an arriving segment satisfies: SEG.SEQ <= Last.ACK.sent
              (see Section 3.4), then record its timestamp in TS.Recent.

         R4)  If an arriving segment is in-sequence (i.e., at the left
              window edge), then accept it normally.

         R5)  Otherwise, treat the segment as a normal in-window, out-
              of-sequence TCP segment (e.g., queue it for later delivery
              to the user).

         Steps R2, R4, and R5 are the normal TCP processing steps
         specified by RFC-793.

         It is important to note that the timestamp is checked only when
         a segment first arrives at the receiver, regardless of whether
         it is in-sequence or it must be queued for later delivery.
         Consider the following example.

              Suppose the segment sequence: A.1, B.1, C.1, ..., Z.1 has
              been sent, where the letter indicates the sequence number
              and the digit represents the timestamp.  Suppose also that
              segment B.1 has been lost.  The timestamp in TS.TStamp is
              1 (from A.1), so C.1, ..., Z.1 are considered acceptable
              and are queued.  When B is retransmitted as segment B.2
              (using the latest timestamp), it fills the hole and causes
              all the segments through Z to be acknowledged and passed
              to the user.  The timestamps of the queued segments are
              *not* inspected again at this time, since they have
              already been accepted.  When B.2 is accepted, TS.Stamp is
              set to 2.

         This rule allows reasonable performance under loss.  A full



Jacobson, Braden, & Borman                                     [Page 19]

RFC 1323          TCP Extensions for High Performance           May 1992


         window of data is in transit at all times, and after a loss a
         full window less one packet will show up out-of-sequence to be
         queued at the receiver (e.g., up to ~2**30 bytes of data); the
         timestamp option must not result in discarding this data.

         In certain unlikely circumstances, the algorithm of rules R1-R4
         could lead to discarding some segments unnecessarily, as shown
         in the following example:

              Suppose again that segments: A.1, B.1, C.1, ..., Z.1 have
              been sent in sequence and that segment B.1 has been lost.
              Furthermore, suppose delivery of some of C.1, ... Z.1 is
              delayed until AFTER the retransmission B.2 arrives at the
              receiver.  These delayed segments will be discarded
              unnecessarily when they do arrive, since their timestamps
              are now out of date.

         This case is very unlikely to occur.  If the retransmission was
         triggered by a timeout, some of the segments C.1, ... Z.1 must
         have been delayed longer than the RTO time.  This is presumably
         an unlikely event, or there would be many spurious timeouts and
         retransmissions.  If B's retransmission was triggered by the
         "fast retransmit" algorithm, i.e., by duplicate ACKs, then the
         queued segments that caused these ACKs must have been received
         already.

         Even if a segment were delayed past the RTO, the Fast
         Retransmit mechanism [Jacobson90c] will cause the delayed
         packets to be retransmitted at the same time as B.2, avoiding
         an extra RTT and therefore causing a very small performance
         penalty.

         We know of no case with a significant probability of occurrence
         in which timestamps will cause performance degradation by
         unnecessarily discarding segments.

      4.2.2  Timestamp Clock

         It is important to understand that the PAWS algorithm does not
         require clock synchronization between sender and receiver.  The
         sender's timestamp clock is used to stamp the segments, and the
         sender uses the echoed timestamp to measure RTT's.  However,
         the receiver treats the timestamp as simply a monotone-
         increasing serial number, without any necessary connection to
         its clock.  From the receiver's viewpoint, the timestamp is
         acting as a logical extension of the high-order bits of the
         sequence number.




Jacobson, Braden, & Borman                                     [Page 20]

RFC 1323          TCP Extensions for High Performance           May 1992


         The receiver algorithm does place some requirements on the
         frequency of the timestamp clock.

         (a)  The timestamp clock must not be "too slow".

              It must tick at least once for each 2**31 bytes sent.  In
              fact, in order to be useful to the sender for round trip
              timing, the clock should tick at least once per window's
              worth of data, and even with the RFC-1072 window
              extension, 2**31 bytes must be at least two windows.

              To make this more quantitative, any clock faster than 1
              tick/sec will reject old duplicate segments for link
              speeds of ~8 Gbps.  A 1ms timestamp clock will work at
              link speeds up to 8 Tbps (8*10**12) bps!

         (b)  The timestamp clock must not be "too fast".

              Its recycling time must be greater than MSL seconds.
              Since the clock (timestamp) is 32 bits and the worst-case
              MSL is 255 seconds, the maximum acceptable clock frequency
              is one tick every 59 ns.

              However, it is desirable to establish a much longer
              recycle period, in order to handle outdated timestamps on
              idle connections (see Section 4.2.3), and to relax the MSL
              requirement for preventing sequence number wrap-around.
              With a 1 ms timestamp clock, the 32-bit timestamp will
              wrap its sign bit in 24.8 days.  Thus, it will reject old
              duplicates on the same connection if MSL is 24.8 days or
              less.  This appears to be a very safe figure; an MSL of
              24.8 days or longer can probably be assumed by the gateway
              system without requiring precise MSL enforcement by the
              TTL value in the IP layer.

         Based upon these considerations, we choose a timestamp clock
         frequency in the range 1 ms to 1 sec per tick.  This range also
         matches the requirements of the RTTM mechanism, which does not
         need much more resolution than the granularity of the
         retransmit timer, e.g., tens or hundreds of milliseconds.

         The PAWS mechanism also puts a strong monotonicity requirement
         on the sender's timestamp clock.  The method of implementation
         of the timestamp clock to meet this requirement depends upon
         the system hardware and software.

         *    Some hosts have a hardware clock that is guaranteed to be
              monotonic between hardware resets.



Jacobson, Braden, & Borman                                     [Page 21]

RFC 1323          TCP Extensions for High Performance           May 1992


         *    A clock interrupt may be used to simply increment a binary
              integer by 1 periodically.

         *    The timestamp clock may be derived from a system clock
              that is subject to being abruptly changed, by adding a
              variable offset value.  This offset is initialized to
              zero.  When a new timestamp clock value is needed, the
              offset can be adjusted as necessary to make the new value
              equal to or larger than the previous value (which was
              saved for this purpose).


      4.2.3  Outdated Timestamps

         If a connection remains idle long enough for the timestamp
         clock of the other TCP to wrap its sign bit, then the value
         saved in TS.Recent will become too old; as a result, the PAWS
         mechanism will cause all subsequent segments to be rejected,
         freezing the connection (until the timestamp clock wraps its
         sign bit again).

         With the chosen range of timestamp clock frequencies (1 sec to
         1 ms), the time to wrap the sign bit will be between 24.8 days
         and 24800 days.  A TCP connection that is idle for more than 24
         days and then comes to life is exceedingly unusual.  However,
         it is undesirable in principle to place any limitation on TCP
         connection lifetimes.

         We therefore require that an implementation of PAWS include a
         mechanism to "invalidate" the TS.Recent value when a connection
         is idle for more than 24 days.  (An alternative solution to the
         problem of outdated timestamps would be to send keepalive
         segments at a very low rate, but still more often than the
         wrap-around time for timestamps, e.g., once a day.  This would
         impose negligible overhead.  However, the TCP specification has
         never included keepalives, so the solution based upon
         invalidation was chosen.)

         Note that a TCP does not know the frequency, and therefore, the
         wraparound time, of the other TCP, so it must assume the worst.
         The validity of TS.Recent needs to be checked only if the basic
         PAWS timestamp check fails, i.e., only if SEG.TSval <
         TS.Recent.  If TS.Recent is found to be invalid, then the
         segment is accepted, regardless of the failure of the timestamp
         check, and rule R3 updates TS.Recent with the TSval from the
         new segment.

         To detect how long the connection has been idle, the TCP may



Jacobson, Braden, & Borman                                     [Page 22]

RFC 1323          TCP Extensions for High Performance           May 1992


         update a clock or timestamp value associated with the
         connection whenever TS.Recent is updated, for example.  The
         details will be implementation-dependent.

      4.2.4  Header Prediction

         "Header prediction" [Jacobson90a] is a high-performance
         transport protocol implementation technique that is most
         important for high-speed links.  This technique optimizes the
         code for the most common case, receiving a segment correctly
         and in order.  Using header prediction, the receiver asks the
         question, "Is this segment the next in sequence?"  This
         question can be answered in fewer machine instructions than the
         question, "Is this segment within the window?"

         Adding header prediction to our timestamp procedure leads to
         the following recommended sequence for processing an arriving
         TCP segment:

         H1)  Check timestamp (same as step R1 above)

         H2)  Do header prediction: if segment is next in sequence and
              if there are no special conditions requiring additional
              processing, accept the segment, record its timestamp, and
              skip H3.

         H3)  Process the segment normally, as specified in RFC-793.
              This includes dropping segments that are outside the win-
              dow and possibly sending acknowledgments, and queueing
              in-window, out-of-sequence segments.

         Another possibility would be to interchange steps H1 and H2,
         i.e., to perform the header prediction step H2 FIRST, and
         perform H1 and H3 only when header prediction fails.  This
         could be a performance improvement, since the timestamp check
         in step H1 is very unlikely to fail, and it requires interval
         arithmetic on a finite field, a relatively expensive operation.
         To perform this check on every single segment is contrary to
         the philosophy of header prediction.  We believe that this
         change might reduce CPU time for TCP protocol processing by up
         to 5-10% on high-speed networks.

         However, putting H2 first would create a hazard: a segment from
         2**32 bytes in the past might arrive at exactly the wrong time
         and be accepted mistakenly by the header-prediction step.  The
         following reasoning has been introduced [Jacobson90b] to show
         that the probability of this failure is negligible.




Jacobson, Braden, & Borman                                     [Page 23]

RFC 1323          TCP Extensions for High Performance           May 1992


              If all segments are equally likely to show up as old
              duplicates, then the probability of an old duplicate
              exactly matching the left window edge is the maximum
              segment size (MSS) divided by the size of the sequence
              space.  This ratio must be less than 2**-16, since MSS
              must be < 2**16; for example, it will be (2**12)/(2**32) =
              2**-20 for an FDDI link.  However, the older a segment is,
              the less likely it is to be retained in the Internet, and
              under any reasonable model of segment lifetime the
              probability of an old duplicate exactly at the left window
              edge must be much smaller than 2**-16.

              The 16 bit TCP checksum also allows a basic unreliability
              of one part in 2**16.  A protocol mechanism whose
              reliability exceeds the reliability of the TCP checksum
              should be considered "good enough", i.e., it won't
              contribute significantly to the overall error rate.  We
              therefore believe we can ignore the problem of an old
              duplicate being accepted by doing header prediction before
              checking the timestamp.

         However, this probabilistic argument is not universally
         accepted, and the consensus at present is that the performance
         gain does not justify the hazard in the general case.  It is
         therefore recommended that H2 follow H1.

   4.3.  Duplicates from Earlier Incarnations of Connection

      The PAWS mechanism protects against errors due to sequence number
      wrap-around on high-speed connection.  Segments from an earlier
      incarnation of the same connection are also a potential cause of
      old duplicate errors.  In both cases, the TCP mechanisms to
      prevent such errors depend upon the enforcement of a maximum
      segment lifetime (MSL) by the Internet (IP) layer (see Appendix of
      RFC-1185 for a detailed discussion).  Unlike the case of sequence
      space wrap-around, the MSL required to prevent old duplicate
      errors from earlier incarnations does not depend upon the transfer
      rate.  If the IP layer enforces the recommended 2 minute MSL of
      TCP, and if the TCP rules are followed, TCP connections will be
      safe from earlier incarnations, no matter how high the network
      speed.  Thus, the PAWS mechanism is not required for this case.

      We may still ask whether the PAWS mechanism can provide additional
      security against old duplicates from earlier connections, allowing
      us to relax the enforcement of MSL by the IP layer.  Appendix B
      explores this question, showing that further assumptions and/or
      mechanisms are required, beyond those of PAWS.  This is not part
      of the current extension.



Jacobson, Braden, & Borman                                     [Page 24]

RFC 1323          TCP Extensions for High Performance           May 1992


