*07.2*	A list of files

You can start Vim to edit a sequence of files.  For example: >

	vim one.c two.c three.c

This command starts Vim and tells it that you will be editing three files.
Vim displays just the first file.  After you have done your thing in this
file, to edit the next file you use this command: >

	:next

If you have unsaved changes in the current file, you will get an error
message and the ":next" will not work.  This is the same problem as with
":edit" mentioned in the previous section.  To abandon the changes: >

	:next!

But mostly you want to save the changes and move on to the next file.  There
is a special command for this: >

	:wnext

This does the same as using two separate commands: >

	:write
	:next


WHERE AM I?

To see which file in the argument list you are editing, look in the window
title.  It should show something like "(2 of 3)".  This means you are editing
the second file out of three files.
   If you want to see the list of files, use this command: >

	:args

This is short for "arguments".  The output might look like this:

	one.c [two.c] three.c ~

These are the files you started Vim with.  The one you are currently editing,
"two.c", is in square brackets.


MOVING TO OTHER ARGUMENTS

To go back one file: >

	:previous

This is just like the ":next" command, except that it moves in the other
direction.  Again, there is a shortcut command for when you want to write the
file first: >

	:wprevious

To move to the very last file in the list: >

	:last

And to move back to the first one again: >

	:first

There is no ":wlast" or ":wfirst" command though!

You can use a count for ":next" and ":previous".  To skip two files forward: >

	:2next


AUTOMATIC WRITING

When moving around the files and making changes, you have to remember to use
":write".  Otherwise you will get an error message.  If you are sure you
always want to write modified files, you can tell Vim to automatically write
them: >

	:set autowrite

When you are editing a file which you may not want to write, switch it off
again: >

	:set noautowrite


EDITING ANOTHER LIST OF FILES

You can redefine the list of files without the need to exit Vim and start it
again.  Use this command to edit three other files: >

	:args five.c six.c seven.h

Or use a wildcard, like it's used in the shell: >

	:args *.txt

Vim will take you to the first file in the list.  Again, if the current file
has changes, you can either write the file first, or use ":args!" (with !
added) to abandon the changes.


DID YOU EDIT THE LAST FILE?
							*arglist-quit*
When you use a list of files, Vim assumes you want to edit them all.  To
protect you from exiting too early, you will get this error when you didn't
edit the last file in the list yet:

	E173: 46 more files to edit ~

If you really want to exit, just do it again.  Then it will work (but not when
you did other commands in between).

