1.1.  Domain Elements

   The IDPR architecture has been designed to accommodate an
   internetwork with tens of thousands of administrative domains



Steenstrup                                                      [Page 3]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


   collectively containing hundreds of thousands of local networks.
   Inter-domain policy routes are constructed using information about
   the services offered by, and the connectivity between, administrative
   domains.  The intra-domain details - gateways, networks, and links
   traversed - of an inter-domain policy route are the responsibility of
   intra-domain routing and are thus outside the scope of IDPR.

   An "administrative domain" (AD) is a collection of contiguous hosts,
   gateways, networks, and links managed by a single administrative
   authority.  The domain administrator defines service restrictions for
   transit traffic and service requirements for locally-generated
   traffic, and selects the addressing schemes and routing procedures
   that apply within the domain.  Within the Internet, each domain has a
   unique numeric identifier assigned by the Internet Assigned Numbers
   Authority (IANA).

   "Virtual gateways" (VGs) are the only IDPR-recognized connecting
   points between adjacent domains.  Each virtual gateway is a
   collection of directly-connected "policy gateways" (see below) in two
   adjoining domains, whose existence has been sanctioned by the
   administrators of both domains.  The domain administrators may agree
   to establish more than one virtual gateway between the two domains.
   For each such virtual gateway, the two administrators together assign
   a local numeric identifier, unique within the set of virtual gateways
   connecting the two domains.  To produce a virtual gateway identifier
   unique within its domain, a domain administrator concatenates the
   mutually assigned local virtual gateway identifier together with the
   adjacent domain's identifier.

   Policy gateways (PGs) are the physical gateways within a virtual
   gateway.  Each policy gateway enforces service restrictions on IDPR
   transit traffic, as stipulated by the domain administrator, and
   forwards the traffic accordingly.  Within a domain, two policy
   gateways are "neighbors" if they are in different virtual gateways.
   A single policy gateway may belong to multiple virtual gateways.
   Within a virtual gateway, two policy gateways are "peers" if they are
   in the same domain and are "adjacent" if they are in different
   domains.  Adjacent policy gateways are "directly connected" if the
   only Internet-addressable entities attached to the connecting medium
   are policy gateways in the virtual gateways.  Note that this
   definition implies that not only point-to-point links but also
   networks may serve as direct connections between adjacent policy
   gateways.  The domain administrator assigns to each of its policy
   gateways a numeric identifier, unique within that domain.

   A "domain component" is a subset of a domain's entities such that all
   entities within the subset are mutually reachable via intra-domain
   routes, but no entities outside the subset are reachable via intra-



Steenstrup                                                      [Page 4]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


   domain routes from entities within the subset.  Normally, a domain
   consists of a single component, namely itself; however, when
   partitioned, a domain consists of multiple components.  Each domain
   component has an identifier, unique within the Internet, composed of
   the domain identifier together with the identifier of the lowest-
   numbered operational policy gateway within the component.  All
   operational policy gateways within a domain component can discover
   mutual reachability through intra-domain routing information.  Hence,
   all such policy gateways can consistently determine, without explicit
   negotiation, which of them has the lowest number.

