1.3.1.  IDPR Entities

   Several different entities are responsible for performing the IDPR
   functions.

   Policy gateways, the only IDPR-recognized connecting points between
   adjacent domains, collect and distribute routing information,
   participate in path setup, forward data messages along established
   paths, and maintain forwarding information databases.

   "Path agents", resident within policy gateways and within "route
   servers" (see below), act on behalf of hosts to select policy routes,
   to set up and manage paths, and to maintain forwarding information
   databases.  Any Internet host can reap the benefits of IDPR, as long
   as there exists a path agent configured to act on its behalf and a
   means by which the host's messages can reach the path agent.
   Specifically, a path agent in one domain may be configured to act on
   behalf of hosts in another domain.  In this case, the path agent's
   domain is an IDPR "proxy" for the hosts' domain.

   Route servers maintain both the routing information database and the
   route database, and they generate policy routes using the routing
   information collected and the source policies requested by the path
   agents.  A route server may reside within a policy gateway, or it may
   exist as an autonomous entity.  Separating the route server functions
   from the policy gateways frees the policy gateways from both the
   memory intensive task of database (routing information and route)
   maintenance and the computationally intensive task of route
   generation.  Route servers, like policy gateways, each have a unique
   numeric identifier within their domain, assigned by the domain
   administrator.

   Given the size of the current Internet, each policy gateway can
   perform the route server functions, in addition to its message
   forwarding functions, with little or no degradation in message
   forwarding performance.  Aggregating the routing functions into
   policy gateways simplifies implementation; one need only install IDPR
   protocols in policy gateways.  Moreover, it simplifies communication
   between routing functions, as all functions reside within each policy
   gateway.  As the Internet grows, the memory and processing required
   to perform the route server functions may become a burden for the
   policy gateways.  When this happens, each domain administrator should



Steenstrup                                                      [Page 6]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


   separate the route server functions from the policy gateways in its
   domain.

   "Mapping servers" maintain the database of mappings that resolve
   Internet names and addresses to domain identifiers.  Each host is
   contained within a domain and is associated with a proxy domain which
   may be identical with the host's domain.  The mapping server function
   will be integrated into the existing DNS name service (see [6]) and
   will provide mappings between a host and its local and proxy domains.

   "Configuration servers" maintain the databases of configured
   information that apply to IDPR entities within their domains.
   Configuration information for a given domain includes transit
   policies (i.e., service offerings and restrictions), source policies
   (i.e., service requirements), and mappings between local IDPR
   entities and their names and addresses.  The configuration server
   function will be integrated into a domain's existing network
   management system (see [7]-[8]).

