1.8.  Network Management

   In this document, we do not describe how to configure and manage
   IDPR.  However, in this section, we do provide a list of the types of
   IDPR configuration information required.  Also, in later sections
   describing the IDPR protocols, we briefly note the types of
   exceptional events that must be logged for network management.
   Complete descriptions of IDPR entity configuration and IDPR managed
   objects appear in [7] and [8] respectively.

   To participate in inter-domain policy routing, policy gateways and
   route servers within a domain each require configuration information.
   Some of the configuration information is specifically defined within
   the given domain, while some of the configuration information is
   universally defined throughout an internetwork.  A domain
   administrator determines domain-specific information, and in the
   Internet, the IANA determines globally significant information.

   To produce valid domain configurations, the domain administrators
   must receive the following global information from the IANA:

   - For each integrity/authentication type, the numeric
     identifier, syntax, and semantics.  Available integrity and
     authentication types include but are not limited to:

       o    public-key based signatures;

       o    private-key based signatures;



Steenstrup                                                     [Page 14]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993



       o    cyclic redundancy checksums;

       o    no integrity/authentication.

   - For each user class, the numeric identifier, syntax, and
     semantics.  Available user classes include but are not limited to:

       o    federal (and if necessary, agency-specific such as NSF, DOD,
            DOE, etc.);

       o    research;

       o    commercial;

       o    support.

   - For each offered service that may be advertised in transit
     policies, the numeric identifier, syntax, and semantics.  Available
     offered services include but are not limited to:

       o    average message delay;

       o    message delay variation;

       o    average bandwidth available;

       o    available bandwidth variation;

       o    maximum transfer unit (MTU);

       o    charge per byte;

       o    charge per message;

       o    charge per unit time.

   - For each access restriction that may be advertised in transit
     policies, the numeric identifier, syntax, and semantics.  Available
     access restrictions include but are not limited to:

       o    Source and destination domains and host sets.

       o    User classes.

       o    Entry and exit virtual gateways.

       o    Time of day.



Steenstrup                                                     [Page 15]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


   - For each requested service that may appear within a path setup
     message, the numeric identifier, syntax, and semantics.  Available
     requested services include but are not limited to:

       o    maximum path life in minutes, messages, or bytes;

       o    integrity/authentication algorithms to be used on data
            messages sent over the path;

       o    upper bound on path delay;

       o    minimum delay path;

       o    upper bound on path delay variation;

       o    minimum delay variation path;

       o    lower bound on path bandwidth;

       o    maximum bandwidth path;

       o    upper bound on monetary cost;

       o    minimum monetary cost path.

   In an internetwork-wide implementation of IDPR, the set of global
   configuration parameters and their syntax and semantics must be
   consistent across all participating domains.  The IANA, responsible
   for establishing the full set of global configuration parameters in
   the Internet, relies on the cooperation of the administrators of all
   participating domains to ensure that the global parameters are
   consistent with the desired transit policies and user service
   requirements of each domain.  Moreover, as the syntax and semantics
   of the global parameters affects the syntax and semantics of the
   corresponding IDPR software, the IANA must carefully define each
   global parameter so that it is unlikely to require future
   modification.

   The IANA provides configured global information to configuration
   servers in all domains participating in IDPR.  Each domain
   administrator uses the configured global information maintained by
   its configuration servers to develop configurations for each IDPR
   entity within its domain.  Each configuration server retains a copy
   of the configuration for each local IDPR entity and also distributes
   the configuration to that entity using, for example, SNMP.






Steenstrup                                                     [Page 16]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


