1.8.1.  Policy Gateway Configuration

   Each policy gateway must contain sufficient configuration information
   to perform its IDPR functions, which subsume those of the path agent.
   These include: validating IDPR control messages; generating and
   distributing virtual gateway connectivity and routing information
   messages to peer, neighbor, and adjacent policy gateways;
   distributing routing information messages to route servers in its
   domain; resolving destination addresses; requesting policy routes
   from route servers; selecting policy routes and initiating path
   setup; ensuring consistency of a path with its domain's transit
   policies; establishing path forwarding information; and forwarding
   IDPR data messages along existing paths.  The necessary configuration
   information includes the following:

   - For each integrity/authentication type, the numeric identifier,
     syntax, and semantics.

   - For each policy gateway and route server in the given domain, the
     numeric identifier and set of addresses or names.

   - For each virtual gateway connected to the given domain, the numeric
     identifier, the numeric identifiers for the constituent peer policy
     gateways, and the numeric identifier for the adjacent domain.

   - For each virtual gateway of which the given policy gateway is a
     member, the numeric identifiers and set of addresses for the
     constituent adjacent policy gateways.

   - For each policy gateway directly-connected and adjacent to the
     given policy gateway, the local connecting interface.

   - For each local route server to which the given policy gateway
     distributes routing information, the numeric identifier.

   - For each source policy applicable to hosts within the given domain,
     the syntax and semantics.

   - For each transit policy applicable to the domain, the numeric
     identifier, syntax, and semantics.

   - For each requested service that may appear within a path setup
     message, the numeric identifier, syntax, and semantics.

   - For each source user class, the numeric identifier, syntax, and
     semantics.





Steenstrup                                                     [Page 17]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


