2.  Control Message Transport Protocol

   IDPR control messages convey routing-related information that
   directly affects the policy routes generated and the paths set up
   across the Internet.  Errors in IDPR control messages can have
   widespread, deleterious effects on inter-domain policy routing, and
   so the IDPR protocols have been designed to minimize loss and
   corruption of control messages.  For every control message it
   transmits, each IDPR protocol expects to receive notification as to
   whether the control message successfully reached the intended IDPR
   recipient.  Moreover, the IDPR recipient of a control message first
   verifies that the message appears to be well-formed, before acting on
   its contents.



Steenstrup                                                     [Page 18]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


   All IDPR protocols use the Control Message Transport Protocol (CMTP),
   a connectionless, transaction-based transport layer protocol, for
   communication with intended recipients of control messages.  CMTP
   retransmits unacknowledged control messages and applies integrity and
   authenticity checks to received control messages.

   There are three types of CMTP messages:

   DATAGRAM:
        Contains IDPR control messages.

   ACK: Positive acknowledgement in response to a DATAGRAM message.

   NAK: Negative acknowledgement in response to a DATAGRAM message.

   Each CMTP message contains several pieces of information supplied by
   the sender that allow the recipient to test the integrity and
   authenticity of the message.  The set of integrity and authenticity
   checks performed after CMTP message reception are collectively
   referred to as "validation checks" and are described in section 2.3.

   When we first designed the IDPR protocols, CMTP as a distinct
   protocol did not exist.  Instead, CMTP-equivalent functionality was
   embedded in each IDPR protocol.  To provide a cleaner implementation,
   we later decided to provide a single transport protocol that could be
   used by all IDPR protocols.  We originally considered using an
   existing transport protocol, but rejected this approach for the
   following reasons:

   - The existing reliable transport protocols do not provide all of the
     validation checks, in particular the timestamp and authenticity
     checks, required by the IDPR protocols.  Hence, if we were to use
     one of these protocols, we would still have to provide a separate
     protocol on top of the transport protocol to force retransmission of
     IDPR messages that failed to pass the required validation checks.

   - Many of the existing reliable transport protocols are window-based
     and hence can result in increased message delay and resource use
     when, as is the case with IDPR, multiple independent messages use
     the same transport connection.  A single message experiencing
     transmission problems and requiring retransmission can prevent the
     window from advancing, forcing all subsequent messages to queue
     behind it.  Moreover, many of the window-based protocols do not
     support selective retransmission of failed messages but instead
     require retransmission of not only the failed message but also all
     preceding messages within the window.

   For these reasons, we decided against using an existing transport



Steenstrup                                                     [Page 19]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


   protocol and in favor of developing CMTP.

