3.2.  Up/Down Protocol

   Directly-connected adjacent policy gateways execute the Up/Down
   Protocol to determine mutual reachability.  Pairs of peer or neighbor
   policy gateways can determine mutual reachability through information
   provided by the intra-domain routing procedure or through execution
   of the up/down protocol.  In general, we do not recommend
   implementing the up/down protocol between each pair of policy
   gateways in a domain, as it results in O(n**2) (where n is the number
   of policy gateways within the domain) communications complexity.
   However, if the intra-domain routing procedure is slow to detect



Steenstrup                                                     [Page 31]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


   connectivity changes or is unable to report reachability at the IDPR
   entity level, the reachability information obtained through the
   up/down protocol may well be worth the extra communications cost.  In
   the remainder of this section, we decribe the up/down protocol from
   the perspective of adjacent policy gateways, but we note that the
   identical protocol can be applied to peer and neighbor policy
   gateways as well.

   The up/down protocol determines whether the direct connection between
   adjacent policy gateways is acceptable for data traffic transport.  A
   direct connection is presumed to be "down" (unacceptable for data
   traffic transport) until the up/down protocol declares it to be "up"
   (acceptable for data traffic transport).  We say that a virtual
   gateway is "up" if there exists at least one pair of adjacent policy
   gateways whose direct connection is acceptable for data traffic
   transport, and that a virtual gateway is "down" if there exists no
   such pair of adjacent policy gateways.

   When executing the up/down protocol, policy gateways exchange UP/DOWN
   messages every ud_per (1) second.  All policy gateways use the same
   default period of ud_per initially and then negotiate a preferred
   period through exchange of UP/DOWN messages.  A policy gateway
   reports its desired value for ud_per within its UP/DOWN messages.  It
   then chooses the larger of its desired value and that of the adjacent
   policy gateway as the period for exchanging subsequent UP/DOWN
   messages.  Policy gateways also exchange, in UP/DOWN messages,
   information about the identity of their respective domain components.
   This information assists the policy gateways in selecting routes
   across virtual gateways to partitioned domains.

   Each UP/DOWN message is transported using CMTP and hence is covered
   by the CMTP validation checks.  However, unlike other IDPR control
   messages, UP/DOWN messages do not require reliable transport.
   Specifically, the up/down protocol requires only a single
   transmission per UP/DOWN message and never directs CMTP to return an
   ACK.  As pair-PG messages, UP/DOWN messages are acceptable under the
   conditions described in section 3.1.1.

   Each policy gateway assesses the state of its direct connection, to
   the adjacent policy gateway, by counting the number of acceptable
   UP/DOWN messages received within a set of consecutive periods.  A
   policy gateway communicates its perception of the state of the direct
   connection through its UP/DOWN messages.  Initially, a policy gateway
   indicates the down state in each of its UP/DOWN messages.  Only when
   the direct connection appears to be up from its perspective does a
   policy gateway indicate the up state in its UP/DOWN messages.

   A policy gateway can begin to transport data traffic over a direct



Steenstrup                                                     [Page 32]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


   connection only if both of the following conditions are true:

   - The policy gateway receives from the adjacent policy gateway at
     least j acceptable UP/DOWN messages within the last m consecutive
     periods.  From the recipient policy gateway's perspective, this
     event up.  Hence, the recipient policy gateway indicates the up
     state in its subsequent UP/DOWN messages.

   - The UP/DOWN message most recently received from the adjacent policy
     gateway indicates the up state, signifying that the adjacent policy
     gateway considers the direct connection to be up.

   A policy gateway must cease to transport data traffic over a direct
   connection whenever either of the following conditions is true:

   - The policy gateway receives from the adjacent policy gateway at
     most acceptable UP/DOWN messages within the last n consecutive
     periods.

   - The UP/DOWN message most recently received from the adjacent policy
     gateway indicates the down state, signifying that the adjacent
     policy gateway considers the direct connection to be down.

   From the recipient policy gateway's perspective, either of these
   events constitutes a state transition of the direct connection from
   up to down.  Hence, the policy gateway indicates the down state in
   its subsequent UP/DOWN messages.

