3.4.1.  Within a Virtual Gateway

   Each policy gateway within a virtual gateway constantly monitors its
   connectivity to all adjacent and to all peer policy gateways.  To
   determine the state of its direct connection to an adjacent policy
   gateway, a policy gateway uses reachability information supplied by
   the up/down protocol.  To determine the state of its intra-domain
   routes to a peer policy gateway, a policy gateway uses reachability
   information supplied by either the intra-domain routing procedure or
   the up/down protocol.

   A policy gateway generates a PG CONNECT message whenever either of
   the following conditions is true:

   -   The policy gateway detects a change, in state or in adjacent
       domain component, associated with its direct connection to an
       adjacent policy gateway.  In this case, the policy gateway
       distributes a copy of the message to each peer reachable via



Steenstrup                                                     [Page 35]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


       intra-domain routing.

   -   The policy gateway detects that a previously unreachable peer is
       now reachable.  In this case, the policy gateway distributes a
       copy of the message to the newly reachable peer.

   A PG CONNECT message is an intra-VG message that includes information
   about each adjacent policy gateway directly connected to the issuing
   policy gateway.  Specifically, the PG CONNECT message contains the
   adjacent policy gateway's identifier, status (reachable or
   unreachable), and domain component identifier.  If a PG CONNECT
   message contains a "request", each peer that receives the message
   responds to the sender with its own PG CONNECT message.

   All mutually reachable peers monitor policy gateway connectivity
   within their virtual gateway, through the up/down protocol, the
   intra-domain routing procedure, and the exchange of PG CONNECT
   messages.  Within a given virtual gateway, each constituent policy
   gateway maintains the following information about each configured
   adjacent policy gateway:

   - The identifier for the adjacent policy gateway.

   - The status of the adjacent policy gateway: reachable/unreachable,
     directly connected/not directly connected.

   - The local exit interfaces used to reach the adjacent policy
     gateway, provided it is reachable.

   - The identifier for the adjacent policy gateway's domain component.

   - The set of peers to which the adjacent policy gateway is
     directly-connected.

   Hence, all mutually reachable peers can detect changes in
   connectivity across the virtual gateway to adjacent domain
   components.

   When the lowest-numbered operational peer policy gateway within a
   virtual gateway detects a change in the set of adjacent domain
   components reachable through direct connections across the given
   virtual gateway, it generates a VGCONNECT message and distributes a
   copy to a VG representative in all other virtual gateways connected
   to its domain.  A VG CONNECT message is an inter-VG message that
   includes information about each peer's connectivity across the given
   virtual gateway.  Specifically, the VG CONNECT message contains, for
   each peer, its identifier and the identifiers of the domain
   components reachable through its direct connections to adjacent



Steenstrup                                                     [Page 36]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


   policy gateways.  Moreover, the VG CONNECT message gives each
   recipient enough information to determine the state, up or down, of
   the issuing virtual gateway.

   The issuing policy gateway, namely the lowest-numbered operational
   peer, may have to wait up to four times vgp_int microseconds after
   detecting the connectivity change, before generating and distributing
   the VGCONNECT message, as described in section 3.1.3.  Each recipient
   VG representative in turn distributes a copy of the VG CONNECT
   message to each of its peers reachable via intra-domain routing.  If
   a VG CONNECT message contains a "request", then in each recipient
   virtual gateway, the lowest-numbered operational peer that receives
   the message responds to the original sender with its own VGCONNECT
   message.

