3.4.2.  Between Virtual Gateways

   At present, we expect transit policies to be uniform over all intra-
   domain routes between any pair of policy gateways within a domain.
   However, when tariffed qualities of service become prevalent
   offerings for intra-domain routing, we can no longer expect
   uniformity of transit policies throughout a domain.  To monitor the
   transit policies supported on intra-domain routes between virtual
   gateways requires both a policy-sensitive intra-domain routing
   procedure and a VGP exchange of policy information between neighbor
   policy gateways.

   Each policy gateway within a domain constantly monitors its
   connectivity to all peer and neighbor policy gateways, including the
   transit policies supported on intra-domain routes to these policy
   gateways.  To determine the state of its intra-domain connection to a
   peer or neighbor policy gateway, a policy gateway uses reachability
   information supplied by either the intra-domain routing procedure or
   the up/down protocol.  To determine the transit policies supported on
   intra-domain routes to a peer or neighbor policy gateway, a policy
   gateway uses policy-sensitive reachability information supplied by
   the intra-domain routing procedure.  We note that when transit
   policies are uniform over a domain, reachability and policy-sensitive
   reachability are equivalent.

   Within a virtual gateway, each constituent policy gateway maintains
   the following information about each configured peer and neighbor
   policy gateway:

   - The identifier for the peer or neighbor policy gateway.

   - The identifiers corresponding to the transit policies configured to
     be supported by intra-domain routes to the peer or neighbor policy



Steenstrup                                                     [Page 37]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


     gateway.

   - According to each transit policy, the status of the peer or
     neighbor policy gateway: reachable/unreachable.

   - For each transit policy, the local exit interfaces used to reach
     the peer or neighbor policy gateway, provided it is reachable.

   - The identifiers for the adjacent domain components reachable
     through direct connections from the peer or neighbor policy
     gateway, obtained through VG CONNECT messages.

   Using this information, a policy gateway can detect changes in its
   connectivity to an adjoining domain component, with respect to a
   given transit policy and through a given neighbor.  Moreover,
   combining the information obtained for all neighbors within a given
   virtual gateway, the policy gateway can detect changes in its
   connectivity, with respect to a given transit policy, to that virtual
   gateway and to adjoining domain components reachable through that
   virtual gateway.

   All policy gateways mutually reachable via intra-domain routes
   supporting a configured transit policy need not exchange information
   about perceived changes in connectivity, with respect to the given
   transit policy.  In this case, each policy gateway can infer
   another's policy-sensitive reachability to a third, through mutual
   intra-domain reachability information provided by the intra-domain
   routing procedure.  However, whenever two or more policy gateways are
   no longer mutually reachable with respect to a given transit policy,
   these policy gateways can no longer infer each other's reachability
   to other policy gateways, with respect to that transit policy.  In
   this case, these policy gateways must exchange explicit information
   about changes in connectivity to other policy gateways, with respect
   to that transit policy.

   A policy gateway generates a PG POLICY message whenever either of the
   following conditions is true:

   - The policy gateway detects a change in its connectivity to another
     virtual gateway, with respect to a configured transit policy, or to
     an adjoining domain component reachable through that virtual
     gateway.  In this case, the policy gateway distributes a copy of
     the message to each peer reachable via intra-domain routing but not
     currently reachable via any intra-domain routes of the given
     transit policy.

   - The policy gateway detects that a previously unreachable peer is
     reachable.  In this case, the policy gateway distributes a copy of



Steenstrup                                                     [Page 38]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


     the message to the newly reachable peer.

   A PG POLICY message is an intra-VG message that includes information
   about each configured transit policy and each virtual gateway
   configured to be reachable from the issuing policy gateway via
   intra-domain routes of the given transit policy.  Specifically, the
   PGPOLICY message contains, for each configured transit policy:

   - The identifier for the transit policy.

   - The identifiers for the virtual gateways associated with the given
     transit policy and currently reachable, with respect to that
     transit policy, from the issuing policy gateway.

   - The identifiers for the domain components reachable from and
     adjacent to the members of the given virtual gateways.

   If a PG POLICY message contains a "request", each peer that receives
   the message responds to the original sender with its own PG POLICY
   message.

   In addition to connectivity between itself and its neighbors, each
   policy gateway also monitors the connectivity, between domain
   components adjacent to its virtual gateway and domain components
   adjacent to other virtual gateways, through its domain and with
   respect to the configured transit policies.  For each member of each
   of its virtual gateways, a policy gateway monitors:

   -  The set of  adjacent domain components  currently reachable
     through direct connections across the given virtual gateway.  The
     policy gateway obtains this information through PG CONNECT messages
     from reachable peers and through UP/DOWN messages from adjacent
     policy gateways.

   - For each configured transit policy, the set of virtual gateways
     currently reachable from the given virtual gateway with respect to
     that transit policy and the set of adjoining domain components
     currently reachable through direct connections across those virtual
     gateways.  The policy gateway obtains this information through PG
     POLICY messages from peers, VG CONNECT messages from neighbors, and
     the intra-domain routing procedure.  Using this information, a
     policy gateway can detect connectivity changes, through its domain
     and with respect to a given transit policy, between adjoining
     domain components.

   When the lowest-numbered operational policy gateway within a virtual
   gateway detects a change in the connectivity between a domain
   component adjacent to its virtual gateway and a domain component



Steenstrup                                                     [Page 39]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


   adjacent to another virtual gateway in its domain, with respect to a
   configured transit policy, it generates a VG POLICY message and
   distributes a copy to a VG representative in selected virtual
   gateways connected to its domain.  In particular, the lowest-numbered
   operational policy gateway distributes a VG POLICY message to a VG
   representative in every other virtual gateway containing a member
   reachable via intra-domain routing but not currently reachable via
   any routes of the given transit policy.  A VG POLICY message is an
   inter-VG message that includes information about the connectivity
   between domain components adjacent to the issuing virtual gateway and
   domain components adjacent to the other virtual gateways in the
   domain, with respect to configured transit policies.  Specifically,
   the VG POLICY message contains, for each transit policy:

   - The identifier for the transit policy.

   - The identifiers for the virtual gateways associated with the given
     transit policy and currently reachable, with respect to that
     transit policy, from the issuing virtual gateway.

   - The identifiers for the domain components reachable from and
     adjacent to the members of the given virtual gateways.

   The issuing policy gateway, namely the lowest-numbered operational
   peer, may have to wait up to four times vgp_int microseconds after
   detecting the connectivity change, before generating and distributing
   the VG POLICY message, as described in section 3.1.3.  Each recipient
   VG representative in turn distributes a copy of the VG POLICY message
   to each of its peers reachable via intra-domain routing.  If a VG
   POLICY message contains a "request", then in each recipient virtual
   gateway, the lowest-numbered operational peer that receives the
   message responds to the original sender with its own VG POLICY
   message.

