3.4.3.  Communication Complexity

   We offer an example, to provide an estimate of the number of VGP
   messages exchanged within a domain, AD X, after a detected change in
   policy gateway connectivity.  Suppose that an adjacent domain, AD Y,
   partitions such that the partition is detectable through the exchange
   of UP/DOWN messages across a virtual gateway connecting AD X and AD
   Y.  Let V be the number of virtual gateways in AD X.  Suppose each
   virtual gateway contains P peer policy gateways, and no policy
   gateway is a member of multiple virtual gateways.  Then, within AD X,
   the detected partition will result in the following VGP message
   exchanges:

   - P policy gateways each receive at most P-1 PG CONNECT messages.



Steenstrup                                                     [Page 40]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


     Each policy gateway detecting the adjacent domain partition
     generates a PG CONNECT message and distributes it to each reachable
     peer in the virtual gateway.

   - P * (V-1) policy gateways each receive at most one VG CONNECT
     message.  The lowest-numbered operational policy gateway in the
     virtual gateway detecting the partition of the adjacent domain
     generates a VG CONNECT message and distributes it to a VG
     representative in all other virtual gateways connected to the
     domain.  In turn, each VG representative distributes the VG CONNECT
     message to each reachable peer within its virtual gateway.

   - P * (V-1) policy gateways each receive at most P-1 PG POLICY
     messages, and only if the domain has more than a single uniform
     transit policy.  Each policy gateway in each virtual gateway
     generates a PG POLICY message and distributes it to all reachable
     peers not currently reachable with respect to the given transit
     policy.

   - P * V policy gateways each receive at most V-1 VG POLICY messages,
     only if the domain has more than a single uniform transit policy.
     The lowest-numbered operational policy gateway in each virtual
     gateway generates a VG POLICY message and distributes it to a VG
     representative in all other virtual gateways containing at least
     one reachable member not currently reachable with respect to the
     given transit policy.  In turn, each VG representative distributes
     a VG POLICY message to each peer within its virtual gateway.

