4.  Routing Information Distribution

   Each domain participating in IDPR generates and distributes its
   routing information messages to route servers throughout an
   internetwork.  IDPR routing information messages contain information
   about the transit policies in effect across the given domain and the
   virtual gateway connectivity to adjacent domains.  Route servers in
   turn use IDPR routing information to generate policy routes between
   source and destination domains.

   There are three different procedures for distributing IDPR routing
   information:

   - The flooding protocol.  In this case, a representative policy
     gateway in each domain floods its routing information messages to
     route servers in all other domains.

   - Remote route server communication.  In this case, a route server
     distributes its domain's routing information messages to route
     servers in specific destination domains, by encapsulating these
     messages within IDPR data messages.  Thus, a domain administrator
     may control the distribution of the domain's routing information by
     restricting routing information exchange with remote route servers.
     Currently, routing information distribution restrictions are not
     included in IDPR configuration information.

   - The route server query protocol.  In this case, a policy gateway or
     route server requests routing information from another route
     server, which in turn responds with routing information from its
     database.  The route server query protocol may be used for quickly
     updating the routing information maintained by a policy gateway
     or route server that has just been connected or reconnected to an
     internetwork.  It may also be used to retrieve routing information
     from domains that restrict distribution of their routing
     information.

   In this section, we describe the flooding protocol only.  In section
   5, we describe the route server query protocol, and in section 5.2,
   we describe communication between route servers in separate domains.

   Policy gateways and route servers use CMTP for reliable transport of
   IDPR routing information messages flooded between peer, neighbor, and
   adjacent policy gateways and between those policy gateways and route
   servers.  The issuing policy gateway must communicate to CMTP the
   maximum number of transmissions per routing information message,
   flood_ret, and the interval between routing information message
   retransmissions, flood_int microseconds.  The recipient policy
   gateway or route server must determine routing information message



Steenstrup                                                     [Page 47]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


   acceptability, as we describe in section 4.2.3 below.

