4.2.1.  Message Generation

   An AD representative generates and distributes a CONFIGURATION
   message whenever there is a configuration change in a transit policy
   or virtual gateway associated with its domain.  This ensures that
   route servers maintain an up-to-date view of a domain's configured
   transit policies and adjacencies.  An AD representative may also
   distribute a CONFIGURATION message at a configurable period of
   conf_per (500) hours.  A CONFIGURATION message contains, for each
   configured transit policy, the identifier assigned by the domain
   administrator, the specification, and the set of associated "virtual
   gateway groups".  Each virtual gateway group comprises virtual
   gateways configured to be mutually reachable via intra-domain routes
   of the given transit policy.  Accompanying each virtual gateway
   listed is an indication of whether the virtual gateway is configured
   to be a domain entry point, a domain exit point, or both according to
   the given transit policy.  The CONFIGURATION message also contains
   the set of local route servers that the domain administrator has
   configured to be available to IDPR clients in other domains.

   An AD representative generates and distributes a DYNAMIC message
   whenever there is a change in currently supported transit policies or
   in current virtual gateway connectivity associated with its domain.
   This ensures that route servers maintain an up-to-date view of a
   domain's supported transit policies and existing adjacencies and how
   they differ from those configured for the domain.  Specifically, an
   AD representative generates a DYNAMIC message whenever there is a
   change in the connectivity, through the given domain and with respect
   to a configured transit policy, between two components of adjoining
   domains.  An AD representative may also distribute a DYNAMIC message
   at a configurable period of dyn_per (24) hours.  A DYNAMIC message
   contains, for each configured transit policy, its identifier,
   associated virtual gateway groups, and domain components reachable
   through virtual gateways in each group.  Each DYNAMIC message also
   contains the set of currently "unavailable", either down or
   unreachable, virtual gateways in the domain.

   We note that each virtual gateway group expressed in a DYNAMIC
   message may be a proper subset of one of the corresponding virtual
   gateway groups expressed in a CONFIGURATION message.  For example,



Steenstrup                                                     [Page 50]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


   suppose that, for a given domain, the virtual gateway group (VG
   A,...,VG E) were configured for a transit policy such that each
   virtual gateway was both a domain entry and exit point.  Thus, all
   virtual gateways in this group are configured to be mutually
   reachable via intra-domain routes of the given transit policy.  Now
   suppose that VG E becomes unreachable because of a power failure and
   furthermore that the remaining virtual gateways form two distinct
   groups, (VG A,VG B) and (VG C,VG D), such that although virtual
   gateways in both groups are still mutually reachable via some intra-
   domain routes they are no longer mutually reachable via any intra-
   domain routes of the given transit policy.  In this case, the virtual
   gateway groups for the given transit policy now become (VG A,VG B)
   and (VG C,VG D); VG E is listed as an unavailable virtual gateway.

   A route server uses information about the set of unavailable virtual
   gateways to determine which of its routes are no longer viable, and
   it subsequently removes such routes from its route database.
   Although route servers could determine the set of unavailable virtual
   gateways using information about configured virtual gateways and
   currently reachable virtual gateways, the associated processing cost
   is high.  In particular, a route server would have to examine all
   virtual gateway groups listed in a DYNAMIC message to determine
   whether there are any unavailable virtual gateways in the given
   domain.  To reduce the message processing at each route server, we
   have chosen to include the set of unavailable virtual gateways in
   each DYNAMIC message.

   In order to construct a DYNAMIC message, an AD representative
   assembles information gathered from intra-domain routing and from
   VGP.  Specifically, the AD representative uses the following
   information:

   - VG CONNECT and UP/DOWN messages to determine the state, up or down,
     of each of its domain's virtual gateways and the adjacent domain
     components reachable through a given virtual gateway.

   - Intra-domain routing information to determine, for each of its
     domain's transit policies, whether a given virtual gateway in the
     domain is reachable with respect to that transit policy.

   - VG POLICY messages to determine the connectivity of adjoining
     domain components, across the given domain and with respect to a
     configured transit policy, such that these components are adjacent
     to virtual gateways not currently reachable from the AD
     representative's virtual gateway according to the given transit
     policy.





Steenstrup                                                     [Page 51]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


