4.2.3.  Message Acceptance

   Prior to a policy gateway forwarding a routing information message or
   a route server incorporating routing information into its routing
   information database, the policy gateway or route server assesses
   routing information message acceptability.  An IDPR routing
   information message is "acceptable" if:

   - It passes the CMTP validation checks.

   - Its timestamp is less than conf_old (530) hours behind the
     recipient's internal clock time for CONFIGURATION messages and less
     than dyn_old (25) hours behind the recipient's internal clock time
     for DYNAMIC messages.

   - Its timestamp and sequence number indicate that it is more recent



Steenstrup                                                     [Page 52]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


     than the currently-stored routing information from the given
     domain.  If there is no routing information currently stored from
     the given domain, then the routing information message contains, by
     default, the more recent information.

   Policy gateways acknowledge and forward acceptable IDPR routing
   information messages, according to the flooding protocol described in
   section 4.2 above.  Moreover, each policy gateway retains the
   timestamp and sequence number for the most recently accepted routing
   information message from each domain and uses these values to
   determine acceptability of routing information messages received in
   the future.  Route servers acknowledge the receipt of acceptable
   routing information messages and incorporate the contents of these
   messages into their routing information databases, contingent upon
   criteria discussed in section 4.2.4 below; however, they do not
   participate in the flooding protocol.  We note that when a policy
   gateway or route server first returns to service, it immediately
   updates its routing information database with routing information
   obtained from another route server, using the route server query
   protocol described in section 5.

   An AD representative takes special action upon receiving an
   acceptable routing information message, supposedly generated by
   itself but originally obtained from a policy gateway or route server
   other than itself.  There are at least three possible reasons for the
   occurrence of this event:

   - The routing information message has been corrupted in a way that is
     not detectable by the integrity/authentication value.

   - The AD representative has experienced a memory error.

   - Some other entity is generating routing information messages on
     behalf of the AD representative.

   In any case, the AD representative logs the event for network
   management.  Moreover, the AD representative must reestablish its own
   routing information messages as the most recent for its domain.  To
   do so, the AD representative waits until its internal clock time
   exceeds the value of the timestamp in the received routing
   information message and then generates a new routing information
   message using the currently-stored domain routing information
   supplied by VGP and by the intra-domain routing procedure.  Note that
   the length of time the AD representative must wait to generate the
   new message is at most cmtp_new (300) seconds, the maximum CMTP-
   tolerated difference between the received message's timestamp and the
   AD representative's internal clock time.




Steenstrup                                                     [Page 53]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


   IDPR routing information messages that pass the CMTP validity checks
   but appear less recent than stored routing information are
   unacceptable.  Policy gateways do not forward unacceptable routing
   information messages, and route servers do not incorporate the
   contents of unacceptable routing information messages into their
   routing information databases.  Instead, the recipient of an
   unacceptable routing information message acknowledges the message in
   one of two ways:

   - If the routing information message timestamp and sequence number
     equal to the timestamp and sequence number associated with the
     stored routing information for the given domain, the recipient
     assumes that the routing information message is a duplicate and
     acknowledges the message.

   - If the routing information message timestamp and sequence number
     indicate that the message is less recent than the stored routing
     information for the domain, the recipient acknowledges the message
     with an indication that the routing information it contains is
     out-of-date.  Such a negative acknowledgement is a signal to the
     sender of the routing information message to request more up-to-
     date routing information from a route server, using the route
     server query protocol.  Furthermore, if the recipient of the out-
     of-date routing information message is a route server, it
     regenerates a routing information message from its own routing
     information database and forwards the message to the sender.  The
     sender may in turn propagate this more recent routing information
     message to other policy gateways and route servers.

