4.2.4.  Message Incorporation

   A route server usually stores the entire contents of an acceptable
   IDPR routing information message in its routing information database,
   so that it has access to all advertised transit policies when
   generating a route and so that it can regenerate routing information
   messages at a later point in time if requested to do so by another
   route server or policy gateway.  However, a route server may elect
   not to store all routing information message contents.  In
   particular, the route server need not store any transit policy that
   excludes the route server's domain as a source or any routing
   information from a domain that the route server's domain's source
   policies exclude for transit.  Selective storing of routing
   information message contents simplifies the route generation
   procedure since it reduces the search space of possible routes, and
   it limits the amount of route server memory devoted to routing
   information.  However, selective storing of routing information also
   means that the route server cannot always regenerate the original
   routing information message, if requested to do so by another route



Steenstrup                                                     [Page 54]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


   server or policy gateway.

   An acceptable IDPR routing information message may contain transit
   policy information that is not well-defined according to the route
   server's perception.  A CONFIGURATION message may contain an
   unrecognized domain, virtual gateway, or transit policy attribute,
   such as user class access restrictions or offered service.  In this
   case, "unrecognized" means that the value in the routing information
   message is not listed in the route server's configuration database,
   as described previously in section 1.8.2.  A DYNAMIC message may
   contain an unrecognized transit policy or virtual gateway.  In this
   case, "unrecognized" means that the transit policy or virtual gateway
   was not listed in the most recent CONFIGURATION message for the given
   domain.

   Each route server can always parse an acceptable routing information
   messsage, even if some of the information is not well-defined, and
   thus can always use the information that it does recognize.
   Therefore, a route server can store the contents of acceptable
   routing information messages from domains in which it is interested,
   regardless of whether all contents appear to be well-defined at
   present.  If a routing message contains unrecognized information, the
   route server may attempt to obtain the additional information it
   needs to decipher the unrecognized information.  For a CONFIGURATION
   message, the route server logs the event for network management; for
   a DYNAMIC message, the route server requests, from another route
   server, the most recent CONFIGURATION message for the domain in
   question.

   When a domain is partitioned, each domain component has its own AD
   representative, which generates routing information messages on
   behalf of that component.  Discovery of a domain partition prompts
   the AD representative for each domain component to generate and
   distribute a DYNAMIC message.  In this case, a route server receives
   and stores more than one routing information message at a time for
   the given domain, namely one for each domain component.

   When the partition heals, the AD representative for the entire domain
   generates and distributes a DYNAMIC message.  In each route server's
   routing information database, the new DYNAMIC message does not
   automatically replace all of the currently-stored DYNAMIC messages
   for the given domain.  Instead, the new message only replaces that
   message whose AD representative matches the AD representative for the
   new message.  The other DYNAMIC messages, generated during the period
   over which the partition occurred, remain in the routing information
   database until they attain their maximum lifetime, as described in
   section 4.2.5 below.  Such stale information may lead to the
   generation of routes that result in path setup failures and hence the



Steenstrup                                                     [Page 55]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


   selection of alternative routes.  To reduce the chances of path setup
   failures, we will investigate, for a future version of IDPR,
   mechanisms for removing partition-related DYNAMIC messages
   immediately after a partition disappears.

