4.2.5.  Routing Information Database

   We expect that most of the IDPR routing information stored in a
   routing information database will remain viable for long periods of
   time, perhaps until a domain reconfiguration occurs.  By "viable", we
   mean that the information reflects the current state of the domain
   and hence may be used successfully for generating policy routes.  To
   reduce the probability of retaining stale routing information, a
   route server imposes a maximum lifetime on each database entry,
   initialized when it incorporates an accepted entry into its routing
   information database.  The maximum lifetime should be longer than the
   corresponding message generation period, so that the database entry
   is likely to be refreshed before it attains its maximum lifetime.

   Each CONFIGURATION message stored in the routing information database
   has a maximum lifetime of conf_old (530) hours; each DYNAMIC message
   stored in the routing information database has a maximum lifetime of
   dyn_old (25) hours.  Periodic generation of routing information
   messages makes it unlikely that any routing information message will
   remain in a routing information database for its full lifetime.
   However, a routing information message may attain its maximum
   lifetime in a route server that is separated from a internetwork for
   a long period of time.

   When an IDPR routing information message attains its maximum lifetime
   in a routing information database, the route server removes the
   message contents from its database, so that it will not generate new
   routes with the outdated routing information nor distribute old
   routing information in response to requests from other route servers
   or policy gateways.  Nevertheless, the route server continues to
   dispense routes previously generated with the old routing
   information, as long as path setup (see section 7) for these routes
   succeeds.

   The route server treats routing information message lifetime
   expiration differently, depending on the type of routing information
   message.  When a CONFIGURATION message expires, the route server
   requests, from another route server, the most recent CONFIGURATION
   message issued for the given domain.  When a DYNAMIC message expires,
   the route server does not initially attempt to obtain more recent
   routing information.  Instead, if route generation is necessary, the
   route server uses the routing information contained in the
   corresponding CONFIGURATION message for the given domain.  Only if



Steenstrup                                                     [Page 56]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


   there is a path setup failure (see section 7.4) involving the given
   domain does the route server request, from another route server, the
   most recent DYNAMIC message issued for the given domain.

