5.2.  Remote Route Server Communication

   RSQP communication involving a remote route server requires a policy
   route and accompanying path setup (see section 7) between the
   requesting and queried entities, as these entities reside in
   different domains.  After generating a request message, the
   requesting entity hands to CMTP its request message along with the
   remote route server's entity and domain identifiers.  CMTP encloses
   the request in a DATAGRAM and hands the DATAGRAM and remote route
   server information to the path agent.  Using the remote route server
   information, the path agent obtains, and if necessary sets up, a path
   to the remote route server.  Once the path to the remote route server
   has been successfully established, the path agent encapsulates the
   DATAGRAM within an IDPR data message and forwards the data message
   along the designated path.

   When the path agent in the remote route server receives the IDPR data
   message, it extracts the DATAGRAM and hands it to CMTP.  In addition,
   the path agent, using the requesting entity and domain identifiers
   contained in the path identifier, obtains, and if necessary sets up,
   a path back to the requesting entity.

   If the DATAGRAM fails any of the CMTP validation checks, CMTP returns
   a NAK to the requesting entity.  If the DATAGRAM passes all of the
   CMTP validation checks, the remote route server assesses the
   acceptability of the request message.  Provided the request message
   is acceptable, the remote route server determines whether it can



Steenstrup                                                     [Page 65]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


   fulfill the request and directs CMTP to return an ACK to the
   requesting entity.  The ACK may contain a negative acknowledgement if
   the entire request cannot be fulfilled.

   The remote route server generates responses for all requests that it
   can fulfill and returns the responses to the requesting entity.
   Specifically, the remote route server hands to CMTP its response and
   the requesting entity information.  CMTP in turn encloses the
   response in a DATAGRAM.

   When returning an ACK, a NAK, or a response to the requesting entity,
   the remote route server hands the corresponding CMTP message and
   requesting entity information to the path agent.  Using the
   requesting entity information, the path agent retrieves the path to
   the requesting entity, encapsulates the CMTP message within an IDPR
   data message, and forwards the data message along the designated
   path.

   When the path agent in the requesting entity receives the IDPR data
   message, it extracts the ACK, NAK, or response to its request and
   performs the CMTP validation checks for that message.  In the case of
   a response messsage, the requesting entity also assesses message
   acceptability before incorporating the contents into the appropriate
   database.

