6.  Route Generation

   Route generation is the most computationally complex part of IDPR,
   because of the number of domains and the number and heterogeneity of
   policies that it must accommodate.  Route servers must generate
   policy routes that satisfy the requested services of the source
   domains and respect the offered services of the transit domains.

   We distinguish requested qualities of service and route generation
   with respect to them as follows:

  - Requested service limits include upper bounds on route delay, route
    delay variation, and session monetary cost and lower bounds on
    available route bandwidth.  Generating a route that must satisfy
    more than one quality of service constraint, for example route delay
    of no more than X seconds and available route bandwidth of no less
    than Y bits per second, is an NP-complete problem.

  - Optimal requested  services  include  minimum  route delay, minimum
    route delay variation, minimum session monetary cost, and maximum
    available route bandwidth.  In the worst case, the computational
    complexity of generating a route that is optimal with respect to a
    given requested service is O((N + L) log N) for Dijkstra's shortest
    path first (SPF) search and O(N + (L * L)) for breadth-first (BF)
    search, where N is the number of nodes and L is the number of links
    in the search graph.  Multi-criteria optimization, for example
    finding a route with minimal delay variation and minimal session
    monetary cost, may be defined in several ways.  One approach to
    multi-criteria optimization is to assign each link a single value
    equal to a weighted sum of the values of the individual offered
    qualities of service and generate a route that is optimal with
    respect to this new criterion.  However, selecting the weights that
    yield the desired route generation behavior is itself an
    optimization procedure and hence not trivial.

To help contain the combinatorial explosion of processing and memory
costs associated with route generation, we supply the following
guidelines for generation of suitable policy routes:

  - Each route server should only generate policy routes from the
    perspective of its own domain as source; it need not generate policy
    routes for arbitrary source/destination domain pairs.  Thus, we can
    distribute the computational burden over all route servers.

  - Route servers should precompute routes for which they anticipate



Steenstrup                                                     [Page 73]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


    requests and should generate routes on demand only in order to
    satisfy unanticipated route requests.  Hence, a single route server
    can distribute its computational burden over time.

  - Route servers should cache the results of route generation, in order
    to minimize the computation associated with responding to future
    route requests.

  - To handle requested service limits, a route server should always
    select the first route generated that satisfies all of the requested
    service limits.

  - To handle multi-criteria optimization in route selection, a route
    server should generate routes that are optimal with respect to the
    first optimal requested service listed in the ROUTE REQUEST message.
    The route server should resolve ties between otherwise equivalent
    routes by evaluating these routes according to the other optimal
    requested services contained in the ROUTE REQUEST message, in the
    order in which they are listed.  With respect to the route server's
    routing information database, the selected route is optimal
    according to the first optimal requested service listed in the ROUTE
    REQUEST message but is not necessarily optimal according to any
    other optimal requested service listed in the ROUTE REQUEST message.

    ti 2 - To handle a mixture of requested service limits and optimal
    requested services, a route server should generate routes that
    satisfy all of the requested service limits.  The route server
    should resolve ties between otherwise equivalent routes by
    evaluating these routes as described in the multi-criteria
    optimization case above.

    ti 2 - All else being equal, a route server should always prefer
    minimum-hop routes, because they minimize the amount of network
    resources consumed by the routes.

    ti 2 - A route server should generate at least one route to each
    component of a partitioned destination domain, because it may not
    know in which domain component the destination host resides.  Hence,
    a route server can maximize the chances of providing a feasible
    route to a destination within a partitioned domain.

