6.1.1.  Implementation

   Data Structures:

   The routing information database contains the graph of an
   internetwork, in which virtual gateways are the nodes and intra-
   domain routes between virtual gateways are the links.  During route
   generation, each route is represented as a sequence of virtual
   gateways, domains, and relevant transit policies, together with a
   list of route characteristics, stored in a temporary array and
   indexed by destination domain.

   - Execute the Policy Consistency routine, first with the source
     domain the given domain and second with the destination domain as
     the given domain.  If any policy inconsistency precludes the
     requested traffic flow, go to Exit.

   - For each domain, initialize a null route, set the route bandwidth
     to and set the following route characteristics to infinity: route
     delay, route delay variation, session monetary cost, and route
     length in hops.

   - With each operational virtual gateway in the source or source proxy
     domain, associate the initial route characteristics.

   - Initialize a next-node data structure which will contain, for each
     route in progress, the virtual gateway at the current endpoint of
     the route together with the associated route characteristics.  The
     next-node data structure determines the order in which routes get
     expanded.



Steenstrup                                                     [Page 75]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


        BF:  A fifo queue.

        SPF: A heap, ordered according to the first optimal requested
             service listed in the ROUTE REQUEST message.

   Remove Next Node: These steps are performed for each virtual gateway
        in the next-node data structure.

      - If there are no more virtual gateways in the next-node data
        structure, go to Exit.

      - Extract a virtual gateway and its associated route
        characteristics from the next-node data structure, obtain the
        adjacent domain, and:

             SPF: Remake the heap.

      - If there is a specific destination domain and if for the primary
        optimal service:

             BF:  Route length in hops.

             SPF: First optimal requested service listed in the ROUTE
             REQUEST message.

        the extracted virtual gateway's associated route characteristic
        is no better than that of the destination domain, go to Remove
        Next Node.

      - Execute the Policy Consistency routine with the adjacent domain
        as given domain.  If any policy inconsistency precludes the
        requested traffic flow, go to Remove Next Node.

      - Check that the source domain's transit policies do not preclude
        traffic generated by members of the source host set with the
        specified user class and requested services, from flowing to the
        adjacent domain as destination.  This check is necessary because
        the route server caches what it considers to be all feasible
        routes, to intermediate destination domains, generated during
        the computation of the requested route.  If there are no policy
        inconsistencies, associate the route and its characteristics
        with the adjacent domain as destination.

      - If there is a specific destination domain and if the adjacent
        domain is the destination or destination proxy domain, go to
        Remove Next Node.

      - Record the set of all exit virtual gateways in the adjacent



Steenstrup                                                     [Page 76]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


        domain which the adjacent domain's transit policies permit the
        requested traffic flow and which are currently reachable from
        the entry virtual gateway.

   Next Node:

        These steps are performed for all exit virtual gateways in the
        above set.

      - If there are no exit virtual gateways in the set, go to Remove
        Next Node.

      - Compute the characteristics for the route to the exit virtual
        gateway, and check that all of the route characteristics are
        within the requested service limits.  If any of the route
        characteristics are outside of these limits, go to Next Node.

      - Compare these route characteristics with those already
        associated with the exit virtual gateway (there may be none, if
        this is the first time the exit virtual gateway has been visited
        in the search), according to the primary optimal service.

      - Select the route with the optimal value of the primary optimal
        service, resolve ties by considering optimality according to any
        other optimal requested services in the order in which they are
        listed in the ROUTE REQUEST message, and associate the selected
        route and its characteristics with the exit virtual gateway.

      - Add the virtual gateway to the next-node structure:

             BF:  Add to the end of the fifo queue.

             SPF: Add to the heap.

             and go to Next Node.

   Exit:
        Return a response to the route request, consisting of either a
        set of candidate policy routes or an indication that the route
        request cannot be fulfilled.

   Policy Consistency: Check policy consistency for the given domain.

      - Check that the given domain is not specified as an excluded
        domain in the route request.

      - Check that the given domain's transit policies do not preclude
        traffic generated by members of the source host set with the



Steenstrup                                                     [Page 77]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


        specified user class and requested services, from flowing to the
        destination domain.

   During the computation of the requested routes, a route server also
   caches what it considers to be all feasible routes to intermediate
   destination domains, thus increasing the chances of being able to
   respond to a future route request without having to generate a new
   route.  The route server does perform some policy consistency checks
   on the routes, as they are generated, to intermediate destinations.
   However, these routes may not in fact be feasible; the transit
   domains contained on the routes may not permit traffic between the
   source and the given intermediate destinations.  Hence, before
   dispensing such a route in response to a route request, a route
   server must check that the transit policies of the constituent
   domains are consistent with the source and destination of the traffic
   flow.

