7.1.  An Example of Path Setup

   We illustrate how path setup works by stepping through an example.
   Suppose host Hx in domain AD X wants to communicate with host Hy in
   domain AD Y and that both AD X and AD Y support IDPR.  Hx need not
   know the identity of its own domain or of Hy's domain in order to
   send messages to Hy.  Instead, Hx simply forwards a message bound for
   Hy to one of the gateways on its local network, according to its
   local forwarding information only.  If the recipient gateway is a
   policy gateway, the resident path agent determines how to forward the
   message outside of the domain.  Otherwise, the recipient gateway
   forwards the message to another gateway in AD X, according to its
   local forwading information.  Eventually, the message will arrive at
   a policy gateway in AD X, as policy gateways are the only egress
   points to other domains, in domains that support IDPR.

   The path agent resident in the recipient policy gateway uses the
   message header, including source and destination addresses and any
   requested service information (for example, type of service), in
   order to determine whether it is an intra-domain or inter-domain
   message, and if inter-domain, whether it requires an IDPR policy
   route.  Specifically, the path agent attempts to locate a forwarding
   information database entry for the given traffic flow, from the
   information contained in the message header.  In the future, for IP
   messages, the relevant header information may also include special
   service-specific IP options or even information from higher layer
   protocols.

   Forwarding database entries exist for all of the following:

   - All intra-domain traffic flows.  Intra-domain forwarding
     information is integrated into the forwarding information database
     as soon as it is received.

   - Inter-domain traffic flows that do not require IDPR policy routes.
     Non-IDPR forwarding information is integrated into the forwarding
     database as soon as it is received.

   - IDPR inter-domain traffic flows for which a path has already been



Steenstrup                                                     [Page 81]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


     set up.  IDPR forwarding information is integrated into the
     forwarding database only during path setup.

   The path agent uses the message header contents to guide the search
   for a forwarding information database entry for a given traffic flow.
   We recommend a radix search to locate such an entry.  When the search
   terminates, it produces either an entry, or, in the case of a new
   IDPR traffic flow, a directive to generate an entry.  If the search
   terminates in an existing forwarding information database entry, the
   path agent forwards the message according to that entry.

   Suppose that the search terminates indicating that the traffic flow
   from Hx to Hy requires an IDPR policy route and that no entry in the
   forwarding information database yet exists for that traffic flow.  In
   this case, the path agent first determines the source and destination
   domains associated with the message's source and destination
   addresses, before attempting to obtain a policy route.  The path
   agent relies on the mapping servers to supply the domain information,
   but it caches all mapping server responses locally to limit the
   number of future queries.  When attempting to resolve an address to a
   domain, the path agent always checks its local cache before
   contacting a mapping server.

   After obtaining the domain information, the path agent attempts to
   obtain a policy route to carry the traffic from Hx to Hy.  The path
   agent relies on route servers to supply policy routes, but it caches
   all route server responses locally to limit the number of future
   queries.  When attempting to locate a suitable policy route, the path
   agent usually consults its local cache before contacting a route
   server, as described previously in section 6.3.

   If no suitable cache entry exists, the path agent queries the route
   server, providing it with the source and destination domains together
   with source policy information carried in the host message or
   specified through configuration.  Upon receiving a policy route
   query, a route server consults its route database.  If it cannot
   locate a suitable route in its route database, the route server
   attempts to generate at least one route to AD Y, consistent with the
   requested services for Hx.

   The route server always returns a response to the path agent,
   regardless of whether it is successful in locating a suitable policy
   route.  The response to a successful route query consists of a set of
   candidate routes, from which the path agent makes its selection.  We
   expect that a path agent will normally choose a single route from a
   candidate set.  Nevertheless, IDPR does not preclude a path agent
   from selecting multiple routes from the candidate set.  A path agent
   may desire multiple routes to support features such as fault



Steenstrup                                                     [Page 82]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


   tolerance or load balancing; however, IDPR does not currently specify
   how the path agent should use multiple routes.

   If the policy route is a new route provided by the route server,
   there will be no existing path for the route, and thus the path agent
   must set up such a path.  However, if the policy route is an existing
   route extracted from the path agent's cache, there may well be an
   existing path for the route, set up to accommodate a host traffic
   flow.  IDPR permits multiple traffic flows to use the same path,
   provided that all traffic flows sharing the path travel between the
   same endpoint domains and have the same service requirements.
   Nevertheless, IDPR does not preclude a path agent from setting up
   distinct paths along the same policy route to preserve the
   distinction between host traffic flows.

   The path agent associates an identifier with the path, which is
   included in each message that travels down the path and is used by
   the policy gateways along the path in order to determine how to
   forward the message.  If the path already exists, the path agent uses
   the preexisting identifier.  However, for new paths, the path agent
   chooses a path identifier that is different from those of all other
   paths that it manages.  The path agent also updates its forwarding
   information database to reference the path identifier and modifies
   its search procedure to yield the correct entry in the forwarding
   information database given the data message header.

   For new paths, the path agent initiates path setup, communicating the
   policy route, in terms of requested services, constituent domains,
   relevant transit policies, and the connecting virtual gateways, to
   policy gateways in intermediate domains.  Using this information, an
   intermediate policy gateway determines whether to accept or refuse
   the path and to which next policy gateway to forward the path setup
   information.  The path setup procedure allows policy gateways to set
   up a path in both directions simultaneously.  Each intermediate
   policy gateway, after path acceptance, updates its forwarding
   information database to include an entry that associates the path
   identifier with the appropriate previous and next hop policy
   gateways.

   When a policy gateway in AD Y accepts a path, it notifies the source
   path agent in AD X.  We expect that the source path agent will
   normally wait until a path has been successfully established before
   using it to transport data traffic.  However, PCP does not preclude a
   path agent from forwarding messages along a path prior to
   confirmation of successful path establishment.  Paths remain in place
   until they are torn down because of failure, expiration, or when
   resources are scarce, preemption in favor of other paths.




Steenstrup                                                     [Page 83]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


   We note that data communication between Hx and Hy may occur over two
   separate IDPR paths: one from AD X to AD Y and one from AD Y to AD X.
   The reasons are that within a domain, hosts know nothing about path
   agents nor IDPR paths, and path agents know nothing about other path
   agents' existing IDPR paths.  Thus, in AD Y, the path agent that
   terminates the path from AD X may not be the same as the path agent
   that receives traffic from Hy destined for Hx.  In this case, receipt
   of traffic from Hy forces the second path agent to set up an
   independent path from AD Y to AD X.

