7.3.  Path Control Messages

   Messages exchanged by the path control protocol are classified into
   "requests": SETUP, TEARDOWN, REPAIR; and "responses": ACCEPT, REFUSE,
   ERROR.  These messages have significance for intermediate policy
   gateways as well as for path agents.

   SETUP:
        Establishes a path by linking together pairs of policy gateways.
        The SETUP message is generated by the originator and propagates



Steenstrup                                                     [Page 85]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


        to the target.  In response to a SETUP message, the originator
        expects to receive an ACCEPT, REFUSE, or ERROR message.  The
        SETUP message carries all information necessary to set up the
        path including path identifier, requested services, transit
        policy information relating to each domain traversed, and
        optionally, expedited data.

   ACCEPT: Signals successful path establishment.  The ACCEPT message is
        generated by the target, in response to a SETUP message, and
        propagates back to the originator.  Reception of an ACCEPT
        message by the originator indicates that the originator can now
        safely proceed to send data along the path.  The ACCEPT message
        contains the path identifier and an optional reason for
        conditional acceptance.

   REFUSE: Signals that the path could not be successfully established,
        either because resources were not available or because there was
        an inconsistency between the services requested by the source
        and the services offered by a transit domain along the path.
        The REFUSE message is generated by the target or by any
        intermediate policy gateway, in response to a SETUP message, and
        propagates back to the originator.  All recipients of a REFUSE
        message recover the resources dedicated to the given path.  The
        REFUSE message contains the path identifier and the reason for
        path refusal.

   TEARDOWN: Tears down a path, typically when a non-recoverable failure
        is detected.  The TEARDOWN message may be generated by any path
        agent or policy gateway in the path and usually propagates in
        both path directions.  All recipients of a TEARDOWN message
        recover the resources dedicated to the given path.  The TEARDOWN
        message contains the path identifier and the reason for path
        teardown.

   REPAIR: Establishes a repaired path by linking together pairs of
        policy gateways.  The REPAIR message is generated by a policy
        gateway after detecting that the next policy gateway on one of
        its existing paths is unreachable.  A policy gateway that
        generates a REPAIR message propagates the message forward at
        most one virtual gateway.  In response to a REPAIR message, the
        policy gateway expects to receive an ACCEPT, REFUSE, TEARDOWN,
        or ERROR message.  The REPAIR message carries the original SETUP
        message.

   ERROR: Transports information about a path error back to the
        originator, when a PCP message contains unrecognized
        information.  The ERROR message may be generated by the target
        or by any intermediate policy gateway and propagates back to the



Steenstrup                                                     [Page 86]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


        originator.  Most, but not all, ERROR messages are generated in
        response to errors encountered during path setup.  The ERROR
        message includes the path identifier and an explanation of the
        error detected.

   Policy gateways use CMTP for reliable transport of PCP messages,
   between path agents and policy gateways and between consecutive
   policy gateways on a path.  PCP must communicate to CMTP the maximum
   number of transmissions per path control message, pcp_ret, and the
   interval between path contol message retransmissions, pcp_int
   microseconds.  All path control messages, except ERROR messages, may
   be transmitted up to pcp_ret times; ERROR messages are never
   retransmitted.  A path control message is "acceptable" if:

   - It passes the CMTP validation checks.

   - Its timestamp is less than pcp_old (300) seconds behind the
     recipient's internal clock time.

   - It carries a recognized path identifier, provided it is not a SETUP
     message.

   An intermediate policy gateway on a path forwards acceptable PCP
   messages.  As we describe in section 7.4 below, SETUP messages must
   undergo additional tests at each intermediate policy gateway prior to
   forwarding.  Moreover, receipt of an acceptable ACCEPT, REFUSE,
   TEARDOWN, or ERROR message at either path agent or at any
   intermediate policy gateway indirectly cancels any active local CMTP
   retransmissions of the original SETUP message.  When a path agent or
   intermediate policy gateway receives an unacceptable path control
   message, it discards the message and logs the event for network
   management.  The path control message age limit reduces the
   likelihood of denial of service attacks based on message replay.

