7.4.  Setting Up and Tearing Down a Path

   Path setup begins when the originator generates a SETUP message
   containing:

   - The path identifier, including path directions to enable.

   - An indication of whether the message includes expedited data.

   -   The source user class identifier.

   - The requested services (see section 5.5.2) and source-specific
     information (see section 7.6.1) for the path.




Steenstrup                                                     [Page 87]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


   - For each domain on the path, the domain component, applicable
     transit policies, and entry and exit virtual gateways.

   The only mandatory requested service is the maximum path lifetime,
   pth_lif, and the only mandatory source-specific information is the
   data message integrity/authentication type.  If these are not
   specified in the path setup message, each recipient policy gateway
   assigns them default values, (60) minutes for pth_lif and no
   authentication for integrity/authentication type.  Each path agent
   and intermediate policy gateway tears down a path when the path
   lifetime is exceeded.  Hence, no single source can indefinitely
   monopolize policy gateway resources or still functioning parts of
   partially broken paths.

   After generating the SETUP message and establishing the proper local
   forwarding information, the originator selects the next policy
   gateway on the path and forwards the SETUP message to the selected
   policy gateway.  The next policy gateway selection procedure,
   described below, applies when either the originator or an
   intermediate policy gateway is making the selection.  We have elected
   to describe the procedure from the perspective of a selecting
   intermediate policy gateway.

   The policy gateway selects the next policy gateway on a path, in
   round-robin order from its list of policy gateways contained in the
   present or next virtual gateway, as explained below.  In selecting
   the next policy gateway, the policy gateway uses information
   contained in the SETUP message and information provided by VGP and by
   the intra-domain routing procedure.

   If the selecting policy gateway is a domain entry point, the next
   policy gateway must be:

   - A member of the next virtual gateway listed in the SETUP message.

   - Reachable according to intra-domain routes supporting the transit
     policies listed in the SETUP message.

   - Able to reach, according to VGP, the next domain component listed
     in the SETUP message.

   In addition, the selecting policy gateway may use quality of service
   information supplied by intra-domain routing to resolve ties between
   otherwise equivalent next policy gateways in the same domain.  In
   particular, the selecting policy gateway may select the next policy
   gateway whose connecting intra-domain route is optimal according to
   the requested services listed in the SETUP message.




Steenstrup                                                     [Page 88]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


   If the selecting policy gateway is a domain exit point, the next
   policy gateway must be:

   - A member of the current virtual gateway listed in the SETUP message
     (which is also the selecting policy gateway's virtual gateway).

   - Reachable according to VGP.

   - A member of the next domain component listed in the SETUP message.

   Once the originator or intermediate policy gateway selects a next
   policy gateway, it forwards the SETUP message to the selected policy
   gateway.  Each recipient (policy gateway or target) of an acceptable
   SETUP message performs several checks on the contents of the message,
   in order to determine whether to establish or reject the path.  We
   describe these checks in detail below from the perspective of a
   policy gateway as SETUP message recipient.

