7.4.2.  Path Consistency with Configured Transit Policies

   Provided the path identifier in the SETUP message appears to be new,
   the policy gateway proceeds to determine whether the information
   contained within the SETUP message is consistent with the transit
   policies configured for its domain.  The policy gateway must locate
   the source and destination domains, the source host set and user
   class identifier, and the domain-specific information for its own
   domain, within the SETUP message, in order to evaluate path
   consistency.  If the policy gateway fails to recognize the source
   user class (or one or more of the requested services), it logs the
   event for network management but continues with path setup.  If the
   policy gateway fails to locate its domain within the SETUP message,
   it abandons path setup, logs the event for network management, and



Steenstrup                                                     [Page 89]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


   returns an ERROR message to the originator via the previous policy
   gateway.  The originator responds by tearing down the path and
   subsequently removing the route from its cache.

   Once the policy gateway locates its domain-specific portion of the
   SETUP message, it may encounter the following problems with the
   contents:

   - The domain-specific portion lists a transit policy not configured
     for the domain.

   - The domain-specific portion lists a virtual gateway not configured
     for the domain.

   In each case, the policy gateway abandons path setup, logs the event
   for network management, and returns an ERROR message to the
   originator via the previous policy gateway.  These types of ERROR
   messages indicate to the originator that the route may have been
   generated using information from an out-of-date CONFIGURATION
   message.

   The originator reacts to the receipt of such an ERROR message as
   follows.  First, it tears down the path and removes the route from
   its cache.  Then, it issues to a route server a ROUTE REQUEST message
   containing a directive to refresh the routing information database,
   with the most recent CONFIGURATION message from the domain that
   issued the ERROR message, before generating a new route.

   Once it verifies that its domain-specific information in the SETUP
   message is recognizable, the policy gateway then checks that the
   information contained within the SETUP message is consistent with the
   transit policies configured for its domain.  A policy gateway at the
   entry to a domain checks path consistency in the direction from
   originator to target, if the enabled path directions include
   originator to target.  A policy gateway at the exit to a domain
   checks path consistency in the direction from target to originator,
   if the enabled path directions include target to originator.

   When evaluating the consistency of the path with the transit policies
   configured for the domain, the policy gateway may encounter any of
   the following problems with SETUP message contents:

   - A transit policy does not apply in the given direction between the
     virtual gateways listed in the SETUP message.

   - A transit policy denies access to traffic from the given host set
     between the source and destination domains listed in the SETUP
     message.



Steenstrup                                                     [Page 90]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


   - A transit policy denies access to traffic from the source user
     class listed in the SETUP message.

   - A transit policy denies access to traffic at the current time.

   In each case, the policy gateway abandons path setup, logs the event
   for network management, and returns a REFUSE message to the
   originator via the previous policy gateway.  These types of REFUSE
   messages indicate to the originator that the route may have been
   generated using information from an out-of-date CONFIGURATION
   message.  The REFUSE message also serves to teardown the path.

   The originator reacts to the receipt of such a REFUSE message as
   follows. First, it removes the route from its cache.  Then, it issues
   to a route server a ROUTE REQUEST message containing a directive to
   refresh the routing information database, with the most recent
   CONFIGURATION message from the domain that issued the REFUSE message,
   before generating a new route.

