7.5.3.  Repairing a Path

   When an IDPR entity detects through an ERROR message that the next
   policy gateway has no knowledge of a given path, it generates a
   REPAIR message and forwards it to the next policy gateway.  This
   REPAIR message will reestablish the path through the next policy
   gateway.

   When an entity detects that the next policy gateway on a path is no
   longer reachable, it takes one of the following actions, depending
   upon whether the entity is a member of the next policy gateway's
   virtual gateway.

   - If the entity is not a member of the next policy gateway's virtual
     gateway, then one of the following two conditions must be true:

      o The next policy gateway has a peer that is reachable via an
        intra-domain route consistent with the requested services.  In
        this case, the entity generates a REPAIR message containing the
        original SETUP message and forwards it to the next policy
        gateway's peer.

      o The next policy gateway has no peers that are reachable via
        intra-domain routes consistent with the requested services.  In
        this case, the entity tears down the path back to the
        originator.

   - If the entity is a member of the next policy gateway's virtual



Steenstrup                                                     [Page 98]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


   gateway, then one of the following four conditions must be true:

      o The next policy gateway has a peer that belongs to the same
        domain component and is directly-connected to and reachable from
        the entity.  In this case, the entity generates a REPAIR message
        and forwards it to the next policy gateway's peer.

      o The next policy gateway has a peer that belongs to the same
        domain component, is not directly-connected to the entity, but
        is directly-connected to and reachable from one of the entity's
        peers, which in turn is reachable from the entity via an intra-
        domain route consistent with the requested services.  In this
        case, the entity generates a REPAIR message and forwards it to
        its peer.

      o The next policy gateway has no operational peers within its
        domain component, but is directly-connected to and reachable
        from one of the entity's peers, which in turn is reachable from
        the entity via an intra-domain route consistent with the
        requested services.  In this case, the entity generates a REPAIR
        message and forwards it to its peer.

      o The next policy gateway has no operational peers within its
        domain component, and the entity has no operational peers which
        are both reachable via intra-domain routes consistent with the
        requested services and directly-connected to and reachable from
        the next policy gateway.  In this case, the entity tears down
        the path back to the originator.

   A recipient of a REPAIR message takes the following steps, depending
   upon its relationship to the entity that issued the REPAIR message.

   - The recipient and the issuing entity are in the same domain or in
     same virtual gateway.  In this case, the recipient extracts the
     SETUP message contained within the REPAIR message and treats the
     message as it would any other SETUP message.  Specifically, the
     recipient checks consistency of the path with its domain's transit
     policies and virtual gateway reachability.  If there are
     unrecognized portions of the SETUP message, the recipient generates
     an ERROR message, and if there are path inconsistencies, the
     recipient generates a REFUSE message.  In either case, the
     recipient returns the corresponding message to the policy gateway
     from which it received the REPAIR message.  Otherwise, if the
     recipient accepts the REPAIR message, it updates its local
     forwarding information database accordingly and forwards the REPAIR
     message to a potential next policy gateway, according to the
     information contained in the enclosed SETUP message.




Steenstrup                                                     [Page 99]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


   - The recipient and the issuing entity are in different domains and
     different virtual gateways.  In this case, the recipient extracts
     the SETUP message from the REPAIR message and determines whether
     the associated path matches any of its established paths.  If the
     path does not match an established path, the recipient generates a
     REFUSE message and returns it to the policy gateway from which it
     received the REPAIR message.  In response to the receipt of a
     REFUSE message, the policy gateway tries a different next policy
     gateway.

   The path is reparable, if a path match is discovered.  In this case,
   the recipient updates the path entry in the local forwarding
   information database and issues an ACCEPT message to the policy
   gateway from which it received the REPAIR message, which in turn
   returns the message to the entity that issued the REPAIR message.
   The path is irreparable if all potential next policy gateways have
   been exhausted and a path match has yet to be discovered.  In this
   case, the policy gateway that fails to locate a next policy gateway
   issues a TEARDOWN message to return to the originator.

   An IDPR entity expects to receive an ACCEPT, TEARDOWN, REFUSE, or
   ERROR message in response to a REPAIR message and reacts to these
   responses differently as follows:

   - The entity always returns a TEARDOWN message to the originator via
     previous policy gateway.

   - The entity does not return an ACCEPT message to the originator, but
     receipt of such a message indicates that the path has been
     successfully repaired.

   - The entity infers that the path is irreparable and subsequently
     tears down the path and logs the event for network management, upon
     receipt of a REFUSE or ERROR message or when no response to the
     REPAIR message arrives within setup_int microseconds.

   When an entity detects that the previous policy gateway on a path
   becomes unreachable, it expects to receive a REPAIR message within
   setup_wait microseconds.  If the entity does not receive a REPAIR
   message for the path within that time, it infers that the path is
   irreparable and subsequently tears down the path and logs the event
   for network management.

