1.5.  IDPR Message Encapsulation

   There are two kinds of IDPR messages:

   - "Data messages" containing user data generated by hosts.

   - "Control messages" containing IDPR protocol-related control
     information generated by policy gateways and route servers.

   Within an internetwork, only policy gateways and route servers are
   able to generate, recognize, and process IDPR messages.  The
   existence of IDPR is invisible to all other gateways and hosts,
   including mapping servers and configuration servers.  Mapping servers
   and configuration servers perform necessary but ancillary functions



Steenstrup                                                      [Page 9]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


   for IDPR, and thus they are not required to handle IDPR messages.

   An IDPR entity places IDPR-specific information in each IDPR control
   message it originates; this information is significant only to
   recipient IDPR entities.  Using "encapsulation" across each domain,
   an IDPR message tunnels from source to destination across an
   internetwork through domains that may employ disparate intra-domain
   addressing schemes and routing procedures.

   As an alternative to encapsulation, we had considered embedding IDPR
   in IP, as a set of IP options.  However, this approach has the
   following disadvantages:

   - Only domains that support IP would be able to participate in IDPR;
     domains that do not support IP would be excluded.

   - Each gateway, policy or other, in a participating domain would at
     least have to recognize the IDPR option, even if it did not execute
     the IDPR protocols.  However, most commercial routers are not
     optimized for IP options processing, and so IDPR message handling
     might require significant processing at each gateway.

   - For some IDPR protocols, in particular path control, the size
     restrictions on IP options would preclude inclusion of all of the
     necessary protocol-related information.

   For these reasons, we decided against the IP option approach and in
   favor of encapsulation.

   An IDPR message travels from source to destination between
   consecutive policy gateways.  Each policy gateway encapsulates the
   IDPR message with information, for example an IP header, that will
   enable the message to reach the next policy gateway.  Note that the
   encapsulating header and the IDPR-specific information may increase
   the message size beyond the MTU of the given domain.  However,
   message fragmentation and reassembly is the responsibility of the
   protocol, for example IP, that encapsulates IDPR messages for
   transport between successive policy gateways; it is not currently the
   responsibility of IDPR itself.

   A policy gateway, when forwarding an IDPR message to a peer or a
   neighbor policy gateway, encapsulates the message in accordance with
   the addressing scheme and routing procedure of the given domain and
   indicates in the protocol field of the encapsulating header that the
   message is indeed an IDPR message.  Intermediate gateways between the
   two policy gateways forward the IDPR message as they would any other
   message, using the information in the encapsulating header.  Only the
   recipient policy gateway interprets the protocol field, strips off



Steenstrup                                                     [Page 10]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


   the encapsulating header, and processes the IDPR message.

   A policy gateway, when forwarding an IDPR message to a directly-
   connected adjacent policy gateway, encapsulates the message in
   accordance with the addressing scheme of the entities within the
   virtual gateway and indicates in the protocol field of the
   encapsulating header that the message is indeed an IDPR message.  The
   recipient policy gateway strips off the encapsulating header and
   processes the IDPR message.  We recommend that the recipient policy
   gateway perform the following validation check of the encapsulating
   header, prior to stripping it off.  Specifically, the recipient
   policy gateway should verify that the source address and the
   destination address in the encapsulating header match the adjacent
   policy gateway's address and its own address, respectively.
   Moreover, the recipient policy gateway should verify that the message
   arrived on the interface designated for the direct connection to the
   adjacent policy gateway.  These checks help to ensure that IDPR
   traffic that crosses domain boundaries does so only over direct
   connections between adjacent policy gateways.

   Policy gateways forward IDPR data messages according to a forwarding
   information database which maps "path identifiers", carried in the
   data messages, into next policy gateways.  Policy gateways forward
   IDPR control messages according to next policy gateways selected by
   the particular IDPR control protocols associated with the messages.
   Distinguishing IDPR data messages and IDPR control messages at the
   encapsulating protocol level, instead of at the IDPR protocol level,
   eliminates an extra level of dispatching and hence makes IDPR message
   forwarding more efficient.  When encapsulated within IP messages,
   IDPR data messages and IDPR control messages carry the IP protocol
   numbers 35 and 38, respectively.

