1.6.  Security

   IDPR contains mechanisms for verifying message integrity and source
   authenticity and for protecting against certain types of denial of
   service attacks.  It is particularly important to keep IDPR control
   messages intact, because they carry control information critical to
   the construction and use of viable policy routes between domains.

   All IDPR messages carry a single piece of information, referred to as



Steenstrup                                                     [Page 12]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


   the "integrity/authentication value", which may be used not only to
   detect message corruption but also to verify the authenticity of the
   message source.  In the Internet, the IANA will sanction the set of
   valid algorithms which may be used to compute the
   integrity/authentication values.  This set may include algorithms
   that perform only message integrity checks such as n-bit cyclic
   redundancy checksums (CRCs), as well as algorithms that perform both
   message integrity and source authentication checks such as signed
   hash functions of message contents.

   Each domain administrator is free to select any
   integrity/authentication algorithm, from the set specified by the
   IANA, for computing the integrity/authentication values contained in
   its domain's messages.  However, we recommend that IDPR entities in
   each domain be capable of executing all of the valid algorithms so
   that an IDPR control message originating at an entity in one domain
   can be properly checked by an entity in another domain.

   Each IDPR control message must carry a non-null
   integrity/authentication value.  We recommend that control message
   integrity/authentication be based on a digital signature algorithm
   applied to a one-way hash function, such as RSA applied to MD5 [17],
   which simultaneously verifies message integrity and source
   authenticity.  The digital signature may be based on either public-
   key or private-key cryptography.  Our approach to digital signature
   use in IDPR is based on the privacy-enhanced Internet electronic mail
   service [13]-[15], already available in the Internet.

   We do not require that IDPR data messages carry a non-null
   integrity/authentication value.  In fact, we recommend that a higher
   layer (end-to-end) procedure, and not IDPR, assume responsibility for
   checking the integrity and authenticity of data messages, because of
   the amount of computation involved.

