1.7.  Timestamps and Clock Synchronization

   Each IDPR message carries a timestamp (expressed in seconds elapsed
   since 1 January 1970 0:00 GMT, following the UNIX precedent) supplied
   by the source IDPR entity, which serves to indicate the age of the
   message.  IDPR entities use the absolute value of the timestamp to
   confirm that a message is current and use the relative difference
   between timestamps to determine which message contains the more
   recent information.

   All IDPR entities must possess internal clocks that are synchronized
   to some degree, in order for the absolute value of a message
   timestamp to be meaningful.  The synchronization granularity required
   by IDPR is on the order of minutes and can be achieved manually.



Steenstrup                                                     [Page 13]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


   Thus, a clock synchronization protocol operating among all IDPR
   entities in all domains, while useful, is not necessary.

   An IDPR entity can determine whether to accept or reject a message
   based on the discrepancy between the message's timestamp and the
   entity's own internal clock time.  Any IDPR message whose timestamp
   lies outside of the acceptable range may contain stale or corrupted
   information or may have been issued by a source whose internal clock
   has lost synchronization with the message recipient's internal clock.
   Timestamp checks are required for control messages because of the
   consequences of propagating and acting upon incorrect control
   information.  However, timestamp checks are discretionary for data
   messages but may be invoked during problem diagnosis, for example,
   when checking for suspected message replays.

   We note that none of the IDPR protocols contain explicit provisions
   for dealing with an exhausted timestamp space.  As timestamp space
   exhaustion will not occur until well into the next century, we expect
   timestamp space viability to outlast the IDPR protocols.

