2.2.  Message Reception

   At the receiving entity, when CMTP obtains a DATAGRAM, it takes one
   of the following actions, depending upon the outcome of the message
   validation checks:

   - The DATAGRAM passes the CMTP validation checks.  CMTP then delivers
     the DATAGRAM with enclosed IDPR control message, to the appropriate
     IDPR protocol, which in turn applies its own integrity checks to
     the control message before acting on the contents.  The recipient
     IDPR protocol, except in one case, directs CMTP to generate an ACK
     and return the ACK to the sender.  That exception is the up/down
     protocol (see section 3.2) which determines reachability of
     adjacent policy gateways and does not use CMTP ACK messages to
     notify the sender of message reception.  Instead, the up/down
     protocol messages themselves carry implicit information about
     message reception at the adjacent policy gateway.  In the cases
     where the recipient IDPR protocol directs CMTP to generate an ACK,
     it may pass control information to CMTP for inclusion in the ACK,
     depending on the contents of the original IDPR control message.
     For example, a route server unable to fill a request for routing
     information may inform the requesting IDPR entity, through an ACK
     for the initial request, to place its request elsewhere.

   - The DATAGRAM fails at least one of the CMTP validation checks.
     CMTP then generates a NAK, returns the NAK to the sender, and
     discards the DATAGRAM, regardless of the type of IDPR control
     message contained in the DATAGRAM.  The NAK indicates the nature of
     the validation failure and serves to help the sender establish
     communication with the recipient.  In particular, the CMTP NAK
     provides a mechanism for negotiation of IDPR version and
     integrity/authentication scheme, two parameters crucial for
     establishing communication between IDPR entities.

   Upon receiving an ACK or a NAK, CMTP immediately discards the message
   if at least one of the validation checks fails or if it is unable to
   locate the associated DATAGRAM.  CMTP logs the latter event for
   network management.  Otherwise, if all of the validation checks pass
   and if it is able to locate the associated DATAGRAM, CMTP clears the
   associated retransmission timer and then takes one of the following
   actions, depending upon the message type:

   - The message is an ACK.  CMTP discards the associated DATAGRAM and
     delivers the ACK, which may contain IDPR control information, to
     the appropriate IDPR protocol.

   - The message is a NAK.  If the associated DATAGRAM has exhausted its
     transmission allotment, CMTP discards the DATAGRAM, informs the



Steenstrup                                                     [Page 22]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


     appropriate IDPR protocol that the control message transmission was
     not successful, and logs the event for network management.
     Otherwise, if the associated DATAGRAM has not yet exhausted its
     transmission allotment, CMTP first checks its copy of the DATAGRAM
     against the failure indication contained in the NAK.  If its
     DATAGRAM copy appears to be intact, CMTP retransmits the DATAGRAM
     and sets the associated retransmission timer.  However, if its
     DATAGRAM copy appears to be corrupted, CMTP discards the DATAGRAM,
     informs the IDPR protocol that the control message transmission was
     not successful, and logs the event for network management.

