3.1.3.  Inter-VG Messages

   Inter-VG message communication occurs between one policy gateway and
   all of its neighbors.  Whenever the lowest-numbered operational
   policy gateway in a set of mutually reachable peers discovers that
   its virtual gateway's connectivity to the adjacent domain or to
   another virtual gateway has changed, it issues an inter-VG message
   indicating the connectivity change to all of its neighbors.
   Specifically, the policy gateway distributes an inter-VG message to a
   "VG representative" policy gateway (see section 3.1.4 below) in each
   virtual gateway in the domain.  Each VG representative in turn
   propagates the inter-VG message to each of its peers.

   Whenever the lowest-numbered operational policy gateway in a set of
   mutually peers detects that one or more previously unreachable peers
   are now reachable, it issues, to the lowest-numbered operational
   policy gateway in all other virtual gateways, requests for inter-VG
   information indicating connectivity to adjacent domains and to other
   virtual gateways.  The recipient policy gateways return the requested



Steenstrup                                                     [Page 29]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


   inter-VG messages to the issuing policy gateway, which in turn
   distributes the messages to the newly reachable peers.  These message
   exchanges ensure that virtual gateways maintain a consistent view of
   each others' connectivity, while consuming minimal domain resources
   in distributing connectivity information.

   An inter-VG message contains information about the entire virtual
   gateway, not just about the issuing policy gateway.  Thus, when
   virtual gateway connectivity changes happen in rapid succession,
   recipients of the resultant inter-VG messages should be able to
   determine the most recent message and that message must contain the
   current virtual gateway connectivity information.  To ensure that the
   connectivity information distributed is consistent and unambiguous,
   we designate a single policy gateway, namely the lowest-numbered
   operational peer, for generating and distributing inter-VG messages.
   It is a simple procedure for a set of mutually reachable peers to
   determine the lowest-numbered member, as we describe in section 3.2
   below.

   To understand why a single member of a virtual gateway must issue
   inter-VG messages, consider the following example.  Suppose that two
   peers in a virtual gateway each detect a different connectivity
   change and generate separate inter-VG messages.  Recipients of these
   messages may not be able to determine which message is more recent if
   policy gateway internal clocks are not perfectly synchronized.
   Moreover, even if the clocks were perfectly synchronized, and hence
   message recency could be consistently determined, it is possible for
   each peer to issue its inter-VG message before receiving current
   information from the other.  As a result, neither inter-VG message
   contains the correct connectivity from the perspective of the virtual
   gateway.  However, these problems are eliminated if all inter-VG
   messages are generated by a single peer within a virtual gateway, in
   particular the lowest-numbered operational policy gateway.

   An inter-VG message is "acceptable" if:

   - It passes the CMTP validation checks.

   - Its timestamp is less than vgp_old (300) seconds behind the
     recipient's internal clock time.

   - Its virtual gateway identifier coincides with that of a virtual
     gateway configured for the recipient's domain.

   - Its source policy gateway identifier represents the lowest numbered
     operational member of the issuing virtual gateway, reachable from
     the recipient.




Steenstrup                                                     [Page 30]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


   Distribution of intra-VG messages among peers often triggers
   generation and distribution of inter-VG messages among virtual
   gateways.  Usually, the lowest-numbered operational policy gateway in
   a virtual gateway generates and distributes an inter-VG message
   immediately after detecting a change in virtual gateway connectivity,
   through receipt or generation of an intra-VG message.  However, if
   this policy gateway is also waiting for an intra-VG message from a
   newly reachable peer, it does not immediately generate and distribute
   the inter-VG message.

   Waiting for intra-VG messages enables the lowest-numbered operational
   policy gateway in a virtual gateway to gather the most recent
   connectivity information for inclusion in the inter-VG message.
   However, under unusual circumstances, the policy gateway may fail to
   receive an intra-VG message from a newly reachable peer, even after
   actively requesting such a message.  To accommodate this case, VGP
   uses an upper bound of four times the configured retransmission
   interval, vgp_int microseconds, on the amount of time to wait before
   generating and distributing an inter-VG message, when receipt of an
   intra-VG message is pending.

