3.3.  Implementation

   We recommend implementing the up/down protocol using a sliding
   window.  Each window slot indicates the UP/DOWN message activity
   during a given period, containing either a "hit" for receipt of an
   acceptable UP/DOWN message or a "miss" for failure to receive an
   acceptable UP/DOWN message.  In addition to the sliding window, the
   implementation should include a tally of hits recorded during the
   current period and a tally of misses recorded over the current
   window.

   When the direct connection moves to the down state, the initial
   values of the up/down protocol parameters must be set as follows:

   -   The sliding window size is equal to m.

   -   Each window slot contains a miss.

   -   The current period hit tally is equal to 0.




Steenstrup                                                     [Page 33]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


   -   The current window miss tally is equal to m.

   When the direct connection moves to the up state, the initial values
   of the up/down protocol parameters must be set as follows:

   -   The sliding window size is equal to n.

   -   Each window slot contains a hit.

   -   The current period hit tally is equal to 0.

   -   The current window miss tally is equal to 0.

   At the conclusion of each period, a policy gateway computes the miss
   tally and determines whether there has been a state transition of the
   direct connection to the adjacent policy gateway.  In the down state,
   a miss tally of no more than m - j signals a transition to the up
   state.  In the up state, a miss tally of no less than n - k signals a
   transition to the down state.

   Computing the correct miss tally involves several steps.  First, the
   policy gateway prepares to slide the window by one slot so that the
   oldest slot disappears, making room for the newest slot.  However,
   before sliding the window, the policy gateway checks the contents of
   the oldest window slot.  If this slot contains a miss, the policy
   gateway decrements the miss tally by 1, as this slot is no longer
   part of the current window.

   After sliding the window, the policy gateway determines the proper
   contents.  If the hit tally for the current period equals 0, the
   policy gateway records a miss for the newest slot and increments the
   miss tally by 1.  Otherwise, if the hit tally for the current period
   is greater than 0, the policy gateway records a hit for the newest
   slot and decrements the hit tally by 1.  Moreover, the policy gateway
   applies any remaining hits to slots containing misses, beginning with
   the newest and progressing to the oldest such slot.  For each such
   slot containing a miss, the policy gateway records a hit in that slot
   and decrements both the hit and miss tallies by 1, as the hit cancels
   out a miss.  The policy gateway continues to apply each remaining hit
   tallied to any slot containing a miss, until either all such hits are
   exhausted or all such slots are accounted for.  Before beginning the
   next up/down period, the policy gateway resets the hit tally to 0.

   Although we expect the hit tally, within any given period, to be no
   greater than 1, we do anticipate the occasional period in which a
   policy gateway receives more than one UP/DOWN message from an
   adjacent policy gateway.  The most common reasons for this occurrence
   are message delay and clock drift.  When an UP/DOWN message is



Steenstrup                                                     [Page 34]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


   delayed, the receiving policy gateway observes a miss in one period
   followed by two hits in the next period, one of which cancels the
   previous miss.  However, excess hits remaining in the tally after
   miss cancellation indicate a problem, such as clock drift.  Thus,
   whenever a policy gateway accumulates excess hits, it logs the event
   for network management.

   When clock drift occurs between two adjacent policy gateways, it
   causes the period of one policy gateway to grow with respect to the
   period of the other policy gateway.  Let p(X) be the period for PG X,
   let p(Y) be the period for PG Y, and let g and h be the smallest
   positive integers such that g * p(X) = h * p(Y).  Suppose that p(Y) >
   p(X) because of clock drift.  In this case, PG X observes g - h
   misses in g consecutive periods, while PG Y observes g - h surplus
   hits in h consecutive periods.  As long as (g - h)/g < (n - k)/n and
   (g - h)/g < or = (m - j)/m, the clock drift itself will not cause the
   direct connection to enter or remain in the down state.

