4.2.  Flooding Protocol

   An AD representative policy gateway uses unrestricted flooding among
   all domains to distribute its domain's IDPR routing information
   messages to route servers in an internetwork.  There are two kinds of
   IDPR routing information messages issued by each AD representative:
   CONFIGURATION and DYNAMIC messages.  Each CONFIGURATION message
   contains the transit policy information configured by the domain
   administrator, including for each transit policy, its identifier, its
   specification, and the sets of virtual gateways configured as
   mutually reachable via intra-domain routes supporting the given
   transit policy.  Each DYNAMIC message contains information about
   current virtual gateway connectivity to adjacent domains and about
   the sets of virtual gateways currently mutually reachable via intra-
   domain routes supporting the configured transit policies.

   The IDPR Flooding Protocol is similar to the flooding procedures
   described in [9]-[11].  Through flooding, the AD representative
   distributes its routing information messages to route servers in its
   own domain and in adjacent domains.  After generating a routing
   information message, the AD representative distributes a copy to each



Steenstrup                                                     [Page 48]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


   of its peers and to a selected VG representative (see section 3.1.4)
   in all other virtual gateways connected to the domain.  Each VG
   representative in turn distributes a copy of the routing information
   message to each of its peers.  We note that distribution of routing
   information messages among virtual gateways and among peers within a
   virtual gateway is identical to distribution of inter-VG messages in
   VGP, as described in section 3.1.3.

   Within a virtual gateway, each policy gateway distributes a copy of
   the routing information message:

   - To each route server in its configured set of route servers.  A
     domain administrator should ensure that each route server not
     contained within a policy gateway appears in the set of configured
     route servers for at least two distinct policy gateways.  Hence,
     such a route server will continue to receive routing information
     messages, even when one of the policy gateways becomes unreachable.
     However, the route server will normally receive duplicate copies of
     a routing information message.

   - To certain directly-connected adjacent policy gateways.  A policy
     gateway distributes a routing information message to a
     directly-connected adjacent policy gateway in an adjacent domain
     component, only when it is the lowest-numbered operational peer
     with a direct connection to the given domain component.  We note
     that each policy gateway knows, through information provided by
     VGP, which peers have direct connections to which components of
     the adjacent domain.  If the policy gateway has direct connections
     to more than one adjacent policy gateway in that domain component,
     it selects the routing information message recipient according to
     the order in which the adjacent policy gateways appear in its
     database, choosing the first one encountered.  This selection
     procedure ensures that a copy of the routing information message
     reaches each component of the adjacent domain, while limiting the
     number of copies distributed.

   Once a routing information message reaches an adjacent policy
   gateway, that policy gateway distributes copies of the message
   throughout its domain.  The adjacent policy gateway, acting as the
   first recipient of the routing information message in its domain,
   follows the same message distribution procedure as the AD
   representative in the source domain, as described above.  The
   flooding procedure terminates when all reachable route servers in an
   internetwork receive a copy of the routing information message.

   Neighbor policy gateways may receive copies of the same routing
   information message from different adjoining domains.  If two
   neighbor policy gateways receive the message copies simultaneously,



Steenstrup                                                     [Page 49]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


   they will distribute them to VG representatives in other virtual
   gateways within their domain, resulting in duplicate message
   distribution.  However, each policy gateway stops the spread of
   duplicate routing information messages as soon as it detects them, as
   described in section 4.2.3 below.  In the Internet, we expect
   simultaneous message receptions to be the exception rather than the
   rule, given the hierarchical structure of the current topology.

