5.1.  Message Exchange

   Policy gateways and route servers use CMTP for reliable transport of
   route server requests and responses.  RSQP must communicate to CMTP
   the maximum number of transmissions per request/response message,
   rsqp_ret, and the interval between request/response message
   retransmissions, rsqp_int microseconds.  A route server
   request/response message is "acceptable" if:

   - It passes the CMTP validation checks.

   - Its timestamp is less than rsqp_old (300) seconds behind the
     recipient's internal clock time.

   With RSQP, a requesting entity expects to receive an acknowledgement
   from the queried route server indicating whether the route server can
   accommodate the request.  The route server may fail to fill a given
   request for either of the following reasons:

   - Its corresponding database contains no entry or only a partial
     entry for the requested information.

   - It is governed by special message distribution rules, imposed by
     the domain administrator, that preclude it from releasing the
     requested information.  Currently, such distribution rules are not
     included in IDPR configuration information.

   For all requests that it cannot fill, the route server responds with
   a negative acknowledgement message carried in a CMTP acknowledgement,
   indicating the set of unfulfilled requests (see section 5.5.4).

   If the requesting entity either receives a negative acknowledgement
   or does not receive any acknowledgement after rsqp_ret attempts
   directed at the same route server, it queries a different route



Steenstrup                                                     [Page 64]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


   server, as long as the number of attempted requests to different
   route servers does not exceed rsqp_try (3).  Specifically, the
   requesting entity proceeds in round-robin order through its list of
   addressable route servers.  However, if the requesting entity is
   unsuccessful after rsqp_try attempts, it abandons the request
   altogether and logs the event for network management.

   A policy gateway or a route server can request information from any
   route server that it can address.  Addresses for local route servers
   within a domain are part of the configuration for each IDPR entity
   within a domain; addresses for remote route servers in other domains
   are obtained through flooded CONFIGURATION messages, as described
   previously in section 4.2.1.  However, requesting entities always
   query local route servers before remote route servers, in order to
   contain the costs associated with the query and response.  If the
   requesting entity and the queried route server are in the same
   domain, they can communicate over intra-domain routes, whereas if the
   requesting entity and the queried route server are in different
   domains, they must obtain a policy route and establish a path before
   they can communicate, as we describe below.

