6.3.  Route Database

   A policy route, as originally specified by a route server, is an
   ordered list of virtual gateways, domains, and transit policies: VG 1
   - AD 1 - TP 1 - ... - VG n - AD n - TP n. where VG i is the virtual
   gateway that serves as exit from AD i-1 and entry to AD i, and TP i
   is the set of transit policies associated with AD i and relevant to
   the particular route.  Each route is indexed by source and
   destination domain.  Route servers and paths agents store policy
   routes in route databases maintained as caches whose entries must be
   periodically flushed to avoid retention of stale policy routes.  A
   route server's route database is the set of all routes it has
   generated on behalf of its domain as source or source proxy;
   associated with each route in the database are its route
   characteristics.  A path agent's route database is the set of all
   routes it has requested and received from route servers on behalf of
   hosts for which it is configured to act.

   When attempting to locate a feasible route for a traffic flow, a path
   agent first consults its own route database before querying a route
   server.  If the path agent's route database contains one or more
   routes between the given source and destination domains and
   accommodating the given host set and UCI, then the path agent checks
   each such route against the set of excluded domains listed in the
   source policy.  The path agent either selects the first route
   encountered that does not include the excluded domains, or, if no
   such route exists in its route database, requests a route from a
   route server.

   A path agent must query a route server for routes when it is unable
   to fulfill a route request from its own route database.  Moreover, we
   recommend that a path agent automatically forward to a route server,
   all route requests with non-null requested services.  The reason is
   that the path agent retains no route characteristics in its route
   database.  Hence, the path agent cannot determine whether an entry in
   its route database satisfies the requested services.

   When responding to a path agent's request for a policy route, a route
   server first consults its route database, unless the ROUTE REQUEST
   message contains an explicit directive to generate a new route.  If
   its route database contains one or more routes between the given
   source and destination domains and accommodating the given host set
   and UCI, the route server checks each such route against the set of
   excluded domains listed in the ROUTE REQUEST message.  The route
   server either selects all routes encountered that do not include the
   excluded domains, or, if no such route exists in its route database,
   attempts to generate such a route.  Once the route server selects a
   set of routes, it then checks each such route against the services



Steenstrup                                                     [Page 79]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


   requested by the path agent and the services offered by the domains
   composing the route.  To obtain the offered services information, the
   route server consults its routing information database.  The route
   server either selects the first route encountered that is consistent
   with both the requested and offered services, or, if no such route
   exists in its route database, attempts to generate such a route.

