7.2.  Path Identifiers

   Each path has an associated path identifier, unique throughout an
   internetwork.  Every IDPR data message travelling along that path
   includes the path identifier, used for message forwarding.  The path
   identifier is the concatenation of three items: the identifier of the
   originator's domain, the identifier of the originator's policy
   gateway or route server, and a 32-bit local path identifier specified
   by the originator.  The path identifier and the CMTP transaction
   identifier have analogous syntax and play analogous roles in their
   respective protocols.

   When issuing a new path identifier, the originator always assigns a
   local path identifier that is different from that of any other active
   or recently torn-down path originally set up by that path agent.
   This helps to distinguish new paths from replays.  Hence, the
   originator must keep a record of each extinct path for long enough
   that all policy gateways on the path will have eliminated any
   reference to it from their memories.  The right-most 30 bits of the
   local identifier are the same for each path direction, as they are
   assigned by the originator.  The left-most 2 bits of the local
   identifier indicate the path direction.

   At path setup time, the originator specifies which of the path
   directions to enable contingent upon the information received from
   the route server in the ROUTE RESPONSE message.  By "enable", we mean
   that each path agent and each intermediate policy gateway establishes
   an association between the path identifier and the previous and next
   policy gateways on the path, which it uses for forwarding data
   messages along that path.  IDPR data messages may travel in the
   enabled path directions only, but path control messages are always
   free to travel in either path direction.  The originator may enable
   neither path direction, if the entire data transaction can be carried
   in the path setup message itself.  In this case, the path agents and
   the intermediate policy gateways do not establish forwarding
   associations for the path, but they do verify consistency of the
   policy information contained in the path setup message, with their
   own transit policies, before forwarding the setup message on to the



Steenstrup                                                     [Page 84]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


   next policy gateway.

   The path direction portion of the local path identifier has different
   interpretations, depending upon message type.  In an IDPR path setup
   message, the path direction indicates the directions in which the
   path should be enabled: the value 01 denotes originator to target,
   the value 10 denotes target to originator, the value 11 denotes both
   directions, and the value 00 denotes neither direction.  Each policy
   gateway along the path interprets the path direction in the setup
   message and sets up the forwarding information as directed.  In an
   IDPR data message, the path direction indicates the current direction
   of traffic flow: either 01 for originator to target or 10 for target
   to originator.  Thus, if for example, an originator sets up a path
   enabling only the direction from target to originator, the target
   sends data messages containing the path identifier selected by the
   originator together with the path direction set equal to 10.

   Instead of using path identifiers that are unique throughout an
   internetwork, we could have used path identifiers that are unique
   only between a pair of consecutive policy gateways and that change
   from one policy gateway pair to the next.  The advantage of locally
   unique path identifiers is that they may be much shorter than
   globally unique identifiers and hence consume less transmission
   bandwidth.  However, the disadvantage is that the path identifier
   carried in each IDPR data message must be modified at each policy
   gateway, and hence if the integrity/authentication information covers
   the path identifier, it must be recomputed at each policy gateway.
   For security reasons, we have chosen to include the path identifier
   in the set of information covered by the integrity/authentication
   value, and moreover, we advocate public-key based signatures for
   authentication.  Thus, it is not possible for intermediate policy
   gateways to modify the path identifier and then recompute the correct
   integrity/authentication value.  Therefore, we have decided in favor
   of path identifiers that do not change from hop to hop and hence must
   be globally unique.  To speed forwarding of IDPR data messages with
   long path identifiers, policy gateways should hash the path
   identifiers in order to index IDPR forwarding information.

