7.4.3.  Path Consistency with Virtual Gateway Reachability

   Provided the information contained in the SETUP message is consistent
   with the transit policies configured for its domain, the policy
   gateway proceeds to determine whether the path is consistent with the
   reachability of the virtual gateway containing the potential next
   hop.  To determine virtual gateway reachability, the policy gateway
   uses information provided by VGP and by the intra-domain routing
   procedure.

   When evaluating the consistency of the path with virtual gateway
   reachability, the policy gateway may encounter any of the following
   problems:

   - The virtual gateway containing the potential next hop is down.

   - The virtual gateway containing the potential next hop is not
     reachable via any intra-domain routes supporting the transit
     policies listed in the SETUP message.

   - The next domain component listed in the SETUP message is not
     reachable.

   Each of these determinations is made from the perspective of a single
   policy gateway and may not reflect actual reachability.  In each
   case, the policy gateway encountering such a problem returns a REFUSE
   message to the previous policy gateway which then selects a different
   next policy gateway, in round-robin order, as described in
   previously.  If the policy gateway receives the same response from



Steenstrup                                                     [Page 91]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


   all next policy gateways selected, it abandons path setup, logs the
   event for network management, and returns the REFUSE message to the
   originator via the previous policy gateway.  These types of REFUSE
   messages indicate to the originator that the route may have been
   generated using information from an out-of-date DYNAMIC message.  The
   REFUSE message also serves to teardown the path.

   The originator reacts to the receipt of such a REFUSE message as
   follows.  First, it removes the route from its cache.  Then, it
   issues to a route server a ROUTE REQUEST message containing a
   directive to refresh the routing information database, with the most
   recent DYNAMIC message from the domain that issued the REFUSE
   message, before generating a new route.

