7.4.4.  Obtaining Resources

   Once the policy gateway determines that the SETUP message contents
   are consistent with the transit policies and virtual gateway
   reachability of its domain, it attempts to gain resources for the new
   path.  For this version of IDPR, path resources consist of memory in
   the local forwarding information database.  However, in the future,
   path resources may also include reserved link bandwidth.

   If the policy gateway does not have sufficient resources to establish
   the new path, it uses the following algorithm to determine whether to
   generate a REFUSE message for the new path or a TEARDOWN message for
   an existing path in favor of the new path.  There are two cases:


   - No paths have been idle for more than pcp_idle (300) seconds.  In
     this case, the policy gateway returns a REFUSE message to the
     previous policy gateway.  This policy gateway then tries to select
     a different next policy gateway, as described previously, provided
     the policy gateway that issued the REFUSE message was not the
     target. If the REFUSE message was issued by the target or if there
     is no available next policy gateway, the policy gateway returns
     the REFUSE message to the originator via the previous policy
     gateway and logs the event for network management.  The REFUSE
     message serves to tear down the path.

   - At least one path has been idle for more than pcp_idle seconds.  In
     this case, the policy gateway tears down an older path in order to
     accommodate the newer path and logs the event for network
     management.  Specifically, the policy gateway tears down the least
     recently used path among those that have been idle for longer than
     pcp_idle seconds, resolving ties by choosing the oldest such path.

   If the policy gateway has sufficient resources to establish the path,



Steenstrup                                                     [Page 92]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


   it attempts to update its local forwarding information database with
   information about the path identifier, previous and next policy
   gateways on the path, and directions in which the path should be
   enabled for data traffic transport.

