7.4.7.  Path Life

   Once set up, a path does not live forever.  A path agent or policy
   gateway may tear down an existing path, provided any of the following
   conditions are true:

   - The maximum path lifetime (in minutes, bytes, or messages) has been
     exceeded at the originator, the target, or an intermediate policy
     gateway.  In each case, the IDPR entity detecting path expiration
     logs the event for network management and generates a TEARDOWN
     message as follows:

      o The originator path agent generates a TEARDOWN message for
        propagation toward the target.

      o The target path agent generates a TEARDOWN message for
        propagation toward the originator.

      o An intermediate policy gateway generates two TEARDOWN messages,
        one for propagation toward the originator and one for
        propagation toward the target.

   - The previous or next policy gateway becomes unreachable, across a
     virtual gateway or across a domain according to a given transit
     policy, and the path is not reparable.  In either case, the policy
     gateway detecting the reachability problem logs the event for
     network management and generates a TEARDOWN message as follows:

      o If the previous policy gateway is unreachable, an intermediate
        policy gateway generates a TEARDOWN message for propagation to
        the target.



Steenstrup                                                     [Page 94]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


      o If the next policy gateway is unreachable, an intermediate
        policy gateway generates a TEARDOWN message for propagation to
        the originator.

   - All of the policy gateway's path resources are in use at the
     originator, the target, or an intermediate policy gateway, a new
     path requires resources, and the given existing path is expendable,
     according to the least recently used criterion discussed in section
     7.4.4 above.  In each case, the IDPR entity initiating path
     preemption logs the event for network management and generates a
     TEARDOWN message as follows:

      o The originator path agent generates a TEARDOWN message for
        propagation toward the originator.

      o The target path agent generates a TEARDOWN message for
        propagation toward the originator.

      o An intermediate policy gateway generates two TEARDOWN messages,
        one for propagation toward the originator and one for
        propagation toward the target.

   Path teardown at a path agent or policy gateway, whether initiated by
   one of the above events, by receipt of a TEARDOWN message, or by
   receipt of a REFUSE message during path setup (as discussed in the
   previous sections), results in the path agent or policy gateway
   releasing all resources devoted to both directions of the path.

