7.5.1.  Handling Implicit Path Failures

   Nevertheless, policy gateways along a path must be able to handle the
   case in which a policy gateway fails and subsequently returns to
   service without either the up/down protocol or the intra-domain
   routing procedure detecting the failure; we do not expect this event
   to occur often.  If the policy gateway, prior to failure, contained
   forwarding information for several established paths, it may now
   receive many IDPR data messages containing unrecognized path
   identifiers.  The policy gateway should alert the data sources that
   their paths through it are no longer viable.

   Policy gateways that receive IDPR data messages with unrecognized
   path identifiers take one of the following two actions, depending
   upon their past failure record:

   - The policy gateway has not failed in the past pg_up (24) hour
     period.  In this case, there are at least four possible reasons for
     the unrecognized path identifier in the data message:

      o The data message path identifier has been corrupted in a way
        that is not detectable by the integrity/authentication value, if
        one is present.

      o The policy gateway has experienced a memory error.

      o The policy gateway failed sometime during the life of the path
        and source sent no data on the path for a period of pg_up hours
        following the failure.  Although paths may persist for more than
        pg_up hours, we expect that they will also be used more
        frequently than once every pg_up hours.

      o The path was not successfully established, and the originator
        sent data messages down the path prior to receiving a response
        to its SETUP message.

      In all cases, the policy gateway discards the data message and
      logs the event for network management.

   - The policy gateway has failed at least once in the past pg_up hour
     period.  Thus, the policy gateway assumes that the unrecognized
     path identifier in the data message may be attributed to its
     failure.  In response to the data message, the policy gateway
     generates an ERROR message containing the unrecognized path
     identifier.  The policy gateway then sends the ERROR message back
     to the entity from which it received the data message, which should
     be equivalent to the previous policy gateway on the path.




Steenstrup                                                     [Page 96]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


   When the previous policy gateway receives such an ERROR message, it
   decides whether the message is acceptable.  If the policy gateway
   does not recognize the path identifier contained in the ERROR
   message, it does not find the ERROR message acceptable and
   subsequently discards the message.  However, if the policy gateway
   does find the ERROR message acceptable, it then determines whether it
   has already received an ACCEPT message for the given path.  If the
   policy gateway has not received an ACCEPT message for that path, it
   discards the ERROR message and takes no further action.

   If the policy gateway has received an ACCEPT message for that path,
   it then attempts path repair, as described in section 7.5.2 below.
   Only if path repair is unsuccessful does the previous policy gateway
   generate a TEARDOWN message for the path and return it to the
   originator.  The TEARDOWN message includes the domain and virtual
   gateway containing the policy gateway that failed, which aids the
   originator in selecting a new path that does not include the domain
   containing the failed policy gateway.  This mechanism ensures that
   path agents quickly discover and recover from disrupted paths, while
   guarding against unwarranted path teardown.

