7.5.2.  Local Path Repair

   Failure of one of more entities on a given path may render the path
   unusable.  If the failure is within a domain, IDPR relies on the
   intra-domain routing procedure to find an alternate route across the
   domain, which leaves the path unaffected.  If the failure is in a
   virtual gateway, policy gateways must bear the responsibility of
   repairing the path.  Policy gateways nearest to the failure are the
   first to recognize its existence and hence can react most quickly to
   repair the path.

   Relinquishing control over path repair to policy gateways in other
   domains may be unacceptable to some domain administrators.  The
   reason is that these policy gateways cannot guarantee construction of
   a path that satisfies the source policies of the source domain, as
   they have no knowledge of other domains' source policies.

   Nevertheless, limited local path repair is feasible, without
   distributing either source policy information throughout an
   internetwork or detailed path information among policy gateways in
   the same domain or in the same virtual gateway.  We say that a path
   is "locally reparable" if there exists an alternate route between two
   policy gateways, separated by at most one virtual gateway, on the
   path.  This definition covers path repair in the presence of failed
   routes between consecutive policy gateways as well as failed policy
   gateways themselves.




Steenstrup                                                     [Page 97]

RFC 1479                     IDPR Protocol                     July 1993


   An IDPR entity attempts local repair of an established path, in the
   direction from originator to target, immediately after detecting that
   the next policy gateway on the path is no longer reachable.  To
   prevent multiple path repairs in response to the same failure, we
   have stipulated that path repair can only be initiated in the
   direction from originator to target.  The IDPR entity initiating
   local path repair attempts to find an alternate path to the policy
   gateway immediately following the unreachable policy gateway on the
   path.

   Local path repair minimizes the disruption of data traffic flow
   caused by certain types of failures along an established path.
   Specifically, local path repair can accommodate an individual failed
   policy gateway or failed direct connection between two adjacent
   policy gateways.  However, it can only be attempted through virtual
   gateways containing multiple peer policy gateways.  Local path repair
   is not designed to repair paths traversing failed virtual gateways or
   domain partitions.  Whenever local path repair is impossible, the
   failing path must be torn down.

