BATCH MODE
       Batch mode can be used to apply the same set of updates to many identical systems. Suppose one has a tree which is replicated on a number of hosts.  Now suppose some changes have
       been  made to this source tree and those changes need to be propagated to the other hosts. In order to do this using batch mode, rsync is run with the write-batch option to apply
       the changes made to the source tree to one of the destination trees.  The write-batch option causes the rsync client to store in a "batch file"  all  the  information  needed  to
       repeat this operation against other, identical destination trees.

       Generating  the  batch  file  once saves having to perform the file status, checksum, and data block generation more than once when updating multiple destination trees. Multicast
       transport protocols can be used to transfer the batch update files in parallel to many hosts at once, instead of sending the same data to every host individually.

       To apply the recorded changes to another destination tree, run rsync with the read-batch option, specifying the name of the same batch file,  and  the  destination  tree.   Rsync
       updates the destination tree using the information stored in the batch file.

       For  your convenience, a script file is also created when the write-batch option is used:  it will be named the same as the batch file with ".sh" appended.  This script file con-
       tains a command-line suitable for updating a destination tree using the associated batch file. It can be executed using a Bourne (or Bourne-like) shell, optionally passing in  an
       alternate  destination  tree pathname which is then used instead of the original destination path.  This is useful when the destination tree path on the current host differs from
       the one used to create the batch file.

       Examples:

              $ rsync --write-batch=foo -a host:/source/dir/ /adest/dir/
              $ scp foo* remote:
              $ ssh remote ./foo.sh /bdest/dir/

              $ rsync --write-batch=foo -a /source/dir/ /adest/dir/
              $ ssh remote rsync --read-batch=- -a /bdest/dir/ <foo

       In these examples, rsync is used to update /adest/dir/ from /source/dir/ and the information to repeat this operation is stored in "foo" and "foo.sh".  The host "remote" is  then
       updated  with  the  batched  data  going  into  the  directory /bdest/dir.  The differences between the two examples reveals some of the flexibility you have in how you deal with
       batches:

       o      The first example shows that the initial copy doesn't have to be local -- you can push or pull data to/from a remote host using either the  remote-shell  syntax  or  rsync
              daemon syntax, as desired.

       o      The first example uses the created "foo.sh" file to get the right rsync options when running the read-batch command on the remote host.

       o      The  second  example  reads the batch data via standard input so that the batch file doesn't need to be copied to the remote machine first.  This example avoids the foo.sh
              script because it needed to use a modified --read-batch option, but you could edit the script file if you wished to make use of it (just be sure that no  other  option  is
              trying to use standard input, such as the "--exclude-from=-" option).

       Caveats:

       The  read-batch  option expects the destination tree that it is updating to be identical to the destination tree that was used to create the batch update fileset.  When a differ-
       ence between the destination trees is encountered the update might be discarded with a warning (if the file appears to be up-to-date already) or the file-update may be  attempted
       and then, if the file fails to verify, the update discarded with an error.  This means that it should be safe to re-run a read-batch operation if the command got interrupted.  If
       you wish to force the batched-update to always be attempted regardless of the file's size and date, use the -I option (when reading the batch).  If an error occurs, the  destina-
       tion tree will probably be in a partially updated state. In that case, rsync can be used in its regular (non-batch) mode of operation to fix up the destination tree.

       The  rsync version used on all destinations must be at least as new as the one used to generate the batch file.  Rsync will die with an error if the protocol version in the batch
       file is too new for the batch-reading rsync to handle.  See also the --protocol option for a way to have the creating rsync generate a batch file that an older rsync  can  under-
       stand.  (Note that batch files changed format in version 2.6.3, so mixing versions older than that with newer versions will not work.)

       When  reading  a  batch  file,  rsync will force the value of certain options to match the data in the batch file if you didn't set them to the same as the batch-writing command.
       Other options can (and should) be changed.  For instance --write-batch changes to --read-batch, --files-from is dropped, and  the  --filter/--include/--exclude  options  are  not
       needed unless one of the --delete options is specified.

       The  code  that  creates  the  BATCH.sh  file transforms any filter/include/exclude options into a single list that is appended as a "here" document to the shell script file.  An
       advanced user can use this to modify the exclude list if a change in what gets deleted by --delete is desired.  A normal user can ignore this detail and just use the shell script
       as an easy way to run the appropriate --read-batch command for the batched data.

       The original batch mode in rsync was based on "rsync+", but the latest version uses a new implementation.

