11. Using UTF-8				*mbyte-utf8* *UTF-8* *utf-8* *utf8*
							*Unicode* *unicode*
The Unicode character set was designed to include all characters from other
character sets.  Therefore it is possible to write text in any language using
Unicode (with a few rarely used languages excluded).  And it's mostly possible
to mix these languages in one file, which is impossible with other encodings.

Unicode can be encoded in several ways.  The most popular one is UTF-8, which
uses one or more bytes for each character and is backwards compatible with
ASCII.   On MS-Windows UTF-16 is also used (previously UCS-2), which uses
16-bit words.  Vim can support all of these encodings, but always uses UTF-8
internally.

Vim has comprehensive UTF-8 support.  It works well in:
- xterm with utf-8 support enabled
- Athena, Motif and GTK GUI
- MS-Windows GUI
- several other platforms

Double-width characters are supported.  This works best with 'guifontwide' or
'guifontset'.  When using only 'guifont' the wide characters are drawn in the
normal width and a space to fill the gap.  Note that the 'guifontset' option
is no longer relevant in the GTK+ 2 GUI.

							*bom-bytes*
When reading a file a BOM (Byte Order Mark) can be used to recognize the
Unicode encoding:
	EF BB BF     utf-8
	FE FF        utf-16 big endian
	FF FE        utf-16 little endian
	00 00 FE FF  utf-32 big endian
	FF FE 00 00  utf-32 little endian

Utf-8 is the recommended encoding.  Note that it's difficult to tell utf-16
and utf-32 apart.  Utf-16 is often used on MS-Windows, utf-32 is not
widespread as file format.


					*mbyte-combining* *mbyte-composing*
A composing or combining character is used to change the meaning of the
character before it.  The combining characters are drawn on top of the
preceding character.
Up to two combining characters can be used by default.  This can be changed
with the 'maxcombine' option.
When editing text a composing character is mostly considered part of the
preceding character.  For example "x" will delete a character and its
following composing characters by default.
If the 'delcombine' option is on, then pressing 'x' will delete the combining
characters, one at a time, then the base character.  But when inserting, you
type the first character and the following composing characters separately,
after which they will be joined.  The "r" command will not allow you to type a
combining character, because it doesn't know one is coming.  Use "R" instead.

Bytes which are not part of a valid UTF-8 byte sequence are handled like a
single character and displayed as <xx>, where "xx" is the hex value of the
byte.

Overlong sequences are not handled specially and displayed like a valid
character.  However, search patterns may not match on an overlong sequence.
(an overlong sequence is where more bytes are used than required for the
character.)  An exception is NUL (zero) which is displayed as "<00>".

In the file and buffer the full range of Unicode characters can be used (31
bits).  However, displaying only works for the characters present in the
selected font.

Useful commands:
- "ga" shows the decimal, hexadecimal and octal value of the character under
  the cursor.  If there are composing characters these are shown too.  (If the
  message is truncated, use ":messages").
- "g8" shows the bytes used in a UTF-8 character, also the composing
  characters, as hex numbers.
- ":set encoding=utf-8 fileencodings=" forces using UTF-8 for all files.  The
  default is to use the current locale for 'encoding' and set 'fileencodings'
  to automatically detect the encoding of a file.


STARTING VIM

If your current locale is in an utf-8 encoding, Vim will automatically start
in utf-8 mode.

If you are using another locale: >

	set encoding=utf-8

You might also want to select the font used for the menus.  Unfortunately this
doesn't always work.  See the system specific remarks below, and 'langmenu'.


USING UTF-8 IN X-Windows				*utf-8-in-xwindows*

Note: This section does not apply to the GTK+ 2 GUI.

You need to specify a font to be used.  For double-wide characters another
font is required, which is exactly twice as wide.  There are three ways to do
this:

1. Set 'guifont' and let Vim find a matching 'guifontwide'
2. Set 'guifont' and 'guifontwide'
3. Set 'guifontset'

See the documentation for each option for details.  Example: >

   :set guifont=-misc-fixed-medium-r-normal--15-140-75-75-c-90-iso10646-1

You might also want to set the font used for the menus.  This only works for
Motif.  Use the ":hi Menu font={fontname}" command for this. |:highlight|


TYPING UTF-8						*utf-8-typing*

If you are using X-Windows, you should find an input method that supports
utf-8.

If your system does not provide support for typing utf-8, you can use the
'keymap' feature.  This allows writing a keymap file, which defines a utf-8
character as a sequence of ASCII characters.  See |mbyte-keymap|.

Another method is to set the current locale to the language you want to use
and for which you have a XIM available.  Then set 'termencoding' to that
language and Vim will convert the typed characters to 'encoding' for you.

If everything else fails, you can type any character as four hex bytes: >

	CTRL-V u 1234

"1234" is interpreted as a hex number.  You must type four characters, prepend
a zero if necessary.


COMMAND ARGUMENTS					*utf-8-char-arg*

Commands like |f|, |F|, |t| and |r| take an argument of one character.  For
UTF-8 this argument may include one or two composing characters.  These need
to be produced together with the base character, Vim doesn't wait for the next
character to be typed to find out if it is a composing character or not.
Using 'keymap' or |:lmap| is a nice way to type these characters.

The commands that search for a character in a line handle composing characters
as follows.  When searching for a character without a composing character,
this will find matches in the text with or without composing characters.  When
searching for a character with a composing character, this will only find
matches with that composing character.  It was implemented this way, because
not everybody is able to type a composing character.


