ntp.keys(5)                                          File Formats                                         ntp.keys(5)

NAME
       ntp.keys - NTP symmetric key file format configuration file

SYNOPSIS
        [--option-name] [--option-name value]

       All arguments must be options.

DESCRIPTION
       This document describes the format of an NTP symmetric key file.  For a description of the use of this type of
       file, see the "Authentication Support" section of the ntp.conf(5) page.

       ntpd(8) reads its keys from a file specified using the -k command line option or the  keys  statement  in  the
       configuration file.  While key number 0 is fixed by the NTP standard (as 56 zero bits) and may not be changed,
       one or more keys numbered between 1 and 65535 may be arbitrarily set in the keys file.

       The key file uses the same comment conventions as the configuration file.  Key entries use a fixed  format  of
       the form

           keyno type key opt_IP_list

       where  keyno is a positive integer (between 1 and 65535), type is the message digest algorithm, key is the key
       itself, and opt_IP_list is an optional comma-separated list of IPs where the keyno should  be  trusted.   that
       are  allowed  to  serve  time.  Each IP in opt_IP_list may contain an optional /subnetbits specification which
       identifies the number of bits for the desired subnet of trust.  If opt_IP_list is empty, any  properly-authen-
       ticated message will be accepted.

       The key may be given in a format controlled by the type field.  The type MD5 is always supported.  If ntpd was
       built with the OpenSSL library then any digest library supported by that library may be  specified.   However,
       if compliance with FIPS 140-2 is required the type must be either SHA or SHA1.

       What follows are some key types, and corresponding formats:

       MD5    The  key  is 1 to 16 printable characters terminated by an EOL, whitespace, or a # (which is the "start
              of comment" character).

       SHA
       SHA1
       RMD160 The key is a hex-encoded ASCII string of 40 characters, which is truncated as necessary.

       Note that the keys used by the ntpq(8) and ntpdc(8) programs are checked against passwords  requested  by  the
       programs and entered by hand, so it is generally appropriate to specify these keys in ASCII format.

FILES
       /etc/ntp.keys the default name of the configuration file

SEE ALSO
       ntp.conf(5), ntpd(8), ntpdate(8), ntpdc(8), sntp(8)

AUTHORS
       The University of Delaware and Network Time Foundation

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 1992-2020 The University of Delaware and Network Time Foundation all rights reserved.  This pro-
       gram is released under the terms of the NTP license, <http://ntp.org/license>.

BUGS
       Please send bug reports to: http://bugs.ntp.org, bugs@ntp.org

NOTES
       This document was derived from FreeBSD.

       This manual page was AutoGen-erated from the ntp.keys option definitions.

4.2.8p15                                             23 Jun 2020                                          ntp.keys(5)
