ERROR::PASS5(7stap)                                                                               ERROR::PASS5(7stap)

NAME
       error::pass5 - systemtap pass-5 errors

DESCRIPTION
       Errors that occur during pass 5 (execution) can have a variety of causes.

       exceptional events during script execution
              The  systemtap translator and runtime include numerous error checks that aim to protect the systems and
              the users from mistakes or transient conditions.  The script may deliberately call the  error()  tapset
              function  to  signal a problem.  Some memory needed for accessing $context variables may be temporarily
              unavailable.  Consider using the try/catch construct to wrap  script  fragments  in  exception-handling
              code.  Consider using the stap --suppress-handler-errors or stap --skip-badvars option.

       resource exhaustion
              One  of  several types of space or time resource limits may be exceeded by the script, including system
              overload, too many tuples to be stored in an array, etc.  Some of the error messages identify the  con-
              straint  by  macro name, which may be individually raised.  Consider using the stap --suppress-handler-
              errors and/or stap -g --suppress-time-limits options.  Extend or disable individual resource limits us-
              ing  the  stap  -DSOME_LIMIT=NNNN option.  The stap -t option may identify those probes that are taking
              too long.

       remote execution server problems
              If you use the stap --remote option to direct a systemtap script to be executed somewhere else,  ensure
              that  an  SSH  connection may be made to the remote host, and that it has the current systemtap runtime
              installed & available.

       installation/permission problems
              It  is  possible  that  your  copy  of  systemtap  was  not  correctly  installed.   For  example,  the
              /usr/bin/staprun  program  may lack the necessary setuid permissions, or your invoking userid might not
              have sufficient privileges (root, or stapusr and related group memberships).  Environment variables may
              interfere with locating /usr/libexec/.../stapio.

       security configuration
              SecureBoot  or other module signing machinery may be in effect, preventing .ko module loading.  A local
              or remote stap-server service would be necessary to securely manage keys.  This situation  is  detected
              automatically  on  most kernels, but on some, the SYSTEMTAP_SIGN environment varible may have to be set
              to trigger this extra signing-related processing.

              The normal kernel-module  based  systemtap  backend  may  be  more  than  your  script  requires.   Try
              stap --runtime=bpf and/or stap --runtime=dyninst backends.  Though they have inherent limitations, they
              operate with lesser privileges and perceived risks.

              It may be possible to disable secure/lockdown measures temporarily with the SysRQ+x keystroke, or  per-
              manently with sudo mokutil --disable-validation and a reboot.

       errors from target program
              The program invoked by the stap -c CMD option may exit with a non-zero code.

       uncaught exceptions in the target program
              When  using --runtime=dyninst you may encounter an issue where the target program aborts with a message
              like "terminate called after throwing an instance of 'foo_exception'".  This is unfortunately a limita-
              tion of Dyninst, which sometimes prevents exceptions from properly unwinding through instrumented code.

GATHERING MORE INFORMATION
       Increasing the verbosity of pass-5 with an option such as --vp 00001 can help pinpoint the problem.

SEE ALSO
       stap(1),
       http://sourceware.org/systemtap/wiki/TipExhaustedResourceErrors,
       error::fault(7stap),
       error::reporting(7stap)

                                                                                                  ERROR::PASS5(7stap)
