1.  Introduction

   An increasingly important feature of networking equipment is the
   rapid detection of communication failures between adjacent systems,
   in order to more quickly establish alternative paths.  Detection can
   come fairly quickly in certain circumstances when data link hardware
   comes into play (such as Synchronous Optical Network (SONET) alarms).
   However, there are media that do not provide this kind of signaling
   (such as Ethernet), and some media may not detect certain kinds of
   failures in the path, for example, failing interfaces or forwarding
   engine components.

   Networks use relatively slow "Hello" mechanisms, usually in routing
   protocols, to detect failures when there is no hardware signaling to
   help out.  The time to detect failures ("Detection Times") available
   in the existing protocols are no better than a second, which is far
   too long for some applications and represents a great deal of lost
   data at gigabit rates.  Furthermore, routing protocol Hellos are of
   no help when those routing protocols are not in use, and the
   semantics of detection are subtly different -- they detect a failure
   in the path between the two routing protocol engines.

   The goal of Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD) is to provide
   low-overhead, short-duration detection of failures in the path
   between adjacent forwarding engines, including the interfaces, data
   link(s), and, to the extent possible, the forwarding engines
   themselves.

   An additional goal is to provide a single mechanism that can be used
   for liveness detection over any media, at any protocol layer, with a
   wide range of Detection Times and overhead, to avoid a proliferation
   of different methods.

   This document specifies the details of the base protocol.  The use of
   some mechanisms are application dependent and are specified in a
   separate series of application documents.  These issues are so noted.





Katz & Ward                  Standards Track                    [Page 3]

RFC 5880           Bidirectional Forwarding Detection          June 2010


   Note that many of the exact mechanisms are implementation dependent
   and will not affect interoperability, and are thus outside the scope
   of this specification.  Those issues are so noted.

