3.2.  Operating Modes

   BFD has two operating modes that may be selected, as well as an
   additional function that can be used in combination with the two
   modes.




Katz & Ward                  Standards Track                    [Page 5]

RFC 5880           Bidirectional Forwarding Detection          June 2010


   The primary mode is known as Asynchronous mode.  In this mode, the
   systems periodically send BFD Control packets to one another, and if
   a number of those packets in a row are not received by the other
   system, the session is declared to be down.

   The second mode is known as Demand mode.  In this mode, it is assumed
   that a system has an independent way of verifying that it has
   connectivity to the other system.  Once a BFD session is established,
   such a system may ask the other system to stop sending BFD Control
   packets, except when the system feels the need to verify connectivity
   explicitly, in which case a short sequence of BFD Control packets is
   exchanged, and then the far system quiesces.  Demand mode may operate
   independently in each direction, or simultaneously.

   An adjunct to both modes is the Echo function.  When the Echo
   function is active, a stream of BFD Echo packets is transmitted in
   such a way as to have the other system loop them back through its
   forwarding path.  If a number of packets of the echoed data stream
   are not received, the session is declared to be down.  The Echo
   function may be used with either Asynchronous or Demand mode.  Since
   the Echo function is handling the task of detection, the rate of
   periodic transmission of Control packets may be reduced (in the case
   of Asynchronous mode) or eliminated completely (in the case of Demand
   mode).

   Pure Asynchronous mode is advantageous in that it requires half as
   many packets to achieve a particular Detection Time as does the Echo
   function.  It is also used when the Echo function cannot be supported
   for some reason.

   The Echo function has the advantage of truly testing only the
   forwarding path on the remote system.  This may reduce round-trip
   jitter and thus allow more aggressive Detection Times, as well as
   potentially detecting some classes of failure that might not
   otherwise be detected.

   The Echo function may be enabled individually in each direction.  It
   is enabled in a particular direction only when the system that loops
   the Echo packets back signals that it will allow it, and when the
   system that sends the Echo packets decides it wishes to.

   Demand mode is useful in situations where the overhead of a periodic
   protocol might prove onerous, such as a system with a very large
   number of BFD sessions.  It is also useful when the Echo function is
   being used symmetrically.  Demand mode has the disadvantage that
   Detection Times are essentially driven by the heuristics of the
   system implementation and are not known to the BFD protocol.  Demand




Katz & Ward                  Standards Track                    [Page 6]

RFC 5880           Bidirectional Forwarding Detection          June 2010


   mode may not be used when the path round-trip time is greater than
   the desired Detection Time, or the protocol will fail to work
   properly.  See section 6.6 for more details.

