6.1.  Overview

   A system may take either an Active role or a Passive role in session
   initialization.  A system taking the Active role MUST send BFD
   Control packets for a particular session, regardless of whether it
   has received any BFD packets for that session.  A system taking the
   Passive role MUST NOT begin sending BFD packets for a particular
   session until it has received a BFD packet for that session, and thus
   has learned the remote system's discriminator value.  At least one
   system MUST take the Active role (possibly both).  The role that a
   system takes is specific to the application of BFD, and is outside
   the scope of this specification.



Katz & Ward                  Standards Track                   [Page 14]

RFC 5880           Bidirectional Forwarding Detection          June 2010


   A session begins with the periodic, slow transmission of BFD Control
   packets.  When bidirectional communication is achieved, the BFD
   session becomes Up.

   Once the BFD session is Up, a system can choose to start the Echo
   function if it desires and the other system signals that it will
   allow it.  The rate of transmission of Control packets is typically
   kept low when the Echo function is active.

   If the Echo function is not active, the transmission rate of Control
   packets may be increased to a level necessary to achieve the
   Detection Time requirements for the session.

   Once the session is Up, a system may signal that it has entered
   Demand mode, and the transmission of BFD Control packets by the
   remote system ceases.  Other means of implying connectivity are used
   to keep the session alive.  If either system wishes to verify
   bidirectional connectivity, it can initiate a short exchange of BFD
   Control packets (a "Poll Sequence"; see section 6.5) to do so.

   If Demand mode is not active, and no Control packets are received in
   the calculated Detection Time (see section 6.8.4), the session is
   declared Down.  This is signaled to the remote end via the State
   (Sta) field in outgoing packets.

   If sufficient Echo packets are lost, the session is declared Down in
   the same manner.  See section 6.8.5.

   If Demand mode is active and no appropriate Control packets are
   received in response to a Poll Sequence, the session is declared Down
   in the same manner.  See section 6.6.

   If the session goes Down, the transmission of Echo packets (if any)
   ceases, and the transmission of Control packets goes back to the slow
   rate.

   Once a session has been declared Down, it cannot come back up until
   the remote end first signals that it is down (by leaving the Up
   state), thus implementing a three-way handshake.

   A session MAY be kept administratively down by entering the AdminDown
   state and sending an explanatory diagnostic code in the Diagnostic
   field.








Katz & Ward                  Standards Track                   [Page 15]

RFC 5880           Bidirectional Forwarding Detection          June 2010


