6.8.1.  State Variables

   A minimum amount of information about a session needs to be tracked
   in order to achieve the elements of procedure described here.  The
   following is a set of state variables that are helpful in describing
   the mechanisms of BFD.  Any means of tracking this state may be used
   so long as the protocol behaves as described.

   When the text refers to initializing a state variable, this takes
   place only at the time that the session (and the corresponding state
   variables) is created.  The state variables are subsequently
   manipulated by the state machine and are never reinitialized, even if
   the session fails and is reestablished.

   Once session state is created, and at least one BFD Control packet is
   received from the remote end, it MUST be preserved for at least one
   Detection Time (see section 6.8.4) subsequent to the receipt of the
   last BFD Control packet, regardless of the session state.  This
   preserves timing parameters in case the session flaps.  A system MAY
   preserve session state longer than this.  The preservation or
   destruction of session state when no BFD Control packets for this
   session have been received from the remote system is outside the
   scope of this specification.







Katz & Ward                  Standards Track                   [Page 27]

RFC 5880           Bidirectional Forwarding Detection          June 2010


   All state variables in this specification are of the form "bfd.Xx"
   and should not be confused with fields carried in the protocol
   packets, which are always spelled out to match the names in section
   4.

   bfd.SessionState

      The perceived state of the session (Init, Up, Down, or AdminDown).
      The exact action taken when the session state changes is outside
      the scope of this specification, though it is expected that this
      state change (particularly, to and from Up state) is reported to
      other components of the system.  This variable MUST be initialized
      to Down.

   bfd.RemoteSessionState

      The session state last reported by the remote system in the State
      (Sta) field of the BFD Control packet.  This variable MUST be
      initialized to Down.

   bfd.LocalDiscr

      The local discriminator for this BFD session, used to uniquely
      identify it.  It MUST be unique across all BFD sessions on this
      system, and nonzero.  It SHOULD be set to a random (but still
      unique) value to improve security.  The value is otherwise outside
      the scope of this specification.

   bfd.RemoteDiscr

      The remote discriminator for this BFD session.  This is the
      discriminator chosen by the remote system, and is totally opaque
      to the local system.  This MUST be initialized to zero.  If a
      period of a Detection Time passes without the receipt of a valid,
      authenticated BFD packet from the remote system, this variable
      MUST be set to zero.

   bfd.LocalDiag

      The diagnostic code specifying the reason for the most recent
      change in the local session state.  This MUST be initialized to
      zero (No Diagnostic).









Katz & Ward                  Standards Track                   [Page 28]

RFC 5880           Bidirectional Forwarding Detection          June 2010


   bfd.DesiredMinTxInterval

      The minimum interval, in microseconds, between transmitted BFD
      Control packets that this system would like to use at the current
      time, less any jitter applied (see section 6.8.2).  The actual
      interval is negotiated between the two systems.  This MUST be
      initialized to a value of at least one second (1,000,000
      microseconds) according to the rules described in section 6.8.3.
      The setting of this variable is otherwise outside the scope of
      this specification.

   bfd.RequiredMinRxInterval

      The minimum interval, in microseconds, between received BFD
      Control packets that this system requires, less any jitter applied
      by the sender (see section 6.8.2).  The setting of this variable
      is outside the scope of this specification.  A value of zero means
      that this system does not want to receive any periodic BFD Control
      packets.  See section 6.8.18 for details.

   bfd.RemoteMinRxInterval

      The last value of Required Min RX Interval received from the
      remote system in a BFD Control packet.  This variable MUST be
      initialized to 1.

   bfd.DemandMode

      Set to 1 if the local system wishes to use Demand mode, or 0 if
      not.

   bfd.RemoteDemandMode

      Set to 1 if the remote system wishes to use Demand mode, or 0 if
      not.  This is the value of the Demand (D) bit in the last received
      BFD Control packet.  This variable MUST be initialized to zero.

   bfd.DetectMult

      The desired Detection Time multiplier for BFD Control packets on
      the local system.  The negotiated Control packet transmission
      interval, multiplied by this variable, will be the Detection Time
      for this session (as seen by the remote system).  This variable
      MUST be a nonzero integer, and is otherwise outside the scope of
      this specification.  See section 6.8.4 for further information.






Katz & Ward                  Standards Track                   [Page 29]

RFC 5880           Bidirectional Forwarding Detection          June 2010


   bfd.AuthType

      The authentication type in use for this session, as defined in
      section 4.1, or zero if no authentication is in use.

   bfd.RcvAuthSeq

      A 32-bit unsigned integer containing the last sequence number for
      Keyed MD5 or SHA1 Authentication that was received.  The initial
      value is unimportant.

   bfd.XmitAuthSeq

      A 32-bit unsigned integer containing the next sequence number for
      Keyed MD5 or SHA1 Authentication to be transmitted.  This variable
      MUST be initialized to a random 32-bit value.

   bfd.AuthSeqKnown

      Set to 1 if the next sequence number for Keyed MD5 or SHA1
      authentication expected to be received is known, or 0 if it is not
      known.  This variable MUST be initialized to zero.

      This variable MUST be set to zero after no packets have been
      received on this session for at least twice the Detection Time.
      This ensures that the sequence number can be resynchronized if the
      remote system restarts.

