Appendix A.  Backward Compatibility (Non-Normative)

   Although version 0 of this protocol (as defined in early versions of
   the Internet-Draft that became this RFC) is unlikely to have been
   deployed widely, some implementors may wish to have a backward
   compatibility mechanism.  Note that any mechanism may be potentially
   used that does not alter the protocol definition, so interoperability
   should not be an issue.

   The suggested mechanism described here has the property that it will
   converge on version 1 if both systems implement it, even if one
   system is upgraded from version 0 within a Detection Time.  It will
   interoperate with a system that implements only one version (or is
   configured to support only one version).  A system should obviously
   not perform this function if it is configured to or is only capable
   of using a single version.

   A BFD session will enter a "negotiation holddown" if it is configured
   for automatic versioning and either has just started up, or the
   session has been manually cleared.  The session is set to AdminDown
   state and version 1.  During the holddown period, which lasts for one
   Detection Time, the system sends BFD Control packets as usual, but
   ignores received packets.  After the holddown time is complete, the
   state transitions to Down and normal operation resumes.

   When a system is not in holddown, if it doing automatic versioning
   and is currently using version 1, if any version 0 packet is received
   for the session, it switches immediately to version 0.  If it is
   currently using version 0 and a version 1 packet is received that
   indicates that the neighbor is in state AdminDown, it switches to
   version 1.  If using version 0 and a version 1 packet is received
   indicating a state other than AdminDown, the packet is ignored (per
   spec).

   If the version being used is changed, the session goes down as
   appropriate for the new version (Down state for version 1 or Failing
   state for version 0).

