2.  Design

   BFD is designed to detect failures in communication with a forwarding
   plane next hop.  It is intended to be implemented in some component
   of the forwarding engine of a system, in cases where the forwarding
   and control engines are separated.  This not only binds the protocol
   more to the forwarding plane, but decouples the protocol from the
   fate of the routing protocol engine, making it useful in concert with
   various "graceful restart" mechanisms for those protocols.  BFD may
   also be implemented in the control engine, though doing so may
   preclude the detection of some kinds of failures.

   BFD operates on top of any data protocol (network layer, link layer,
   tunnels, etc.)  being forwarded between two systems.  It is always
   run in a unicast, point-to-point mode.  BFD packets are carried as
   the payload of whatever encapsulating protocol is appropriate for the
   medium and network.  BFD may be running at multiple layers in a
   system.  The context of the operation of any particular BFD session
   is bound to its encapsulation.

   BFD can provide failure detection on any kind of path between
   systems, including direct physical links, virtual circuits, tunnels,
   MPLS Label Switched Paths (LSPs), multihop routed paths, and
   unidirectional links (so long as there is some return path, of
   course).  Multiple BFD sessions can be established between the same
   pair of systems when multiple paths between them are present in at
   least one direction, even if a lesser number of paths are available
   in the other direction (multiple parallel unidirectional links or
   MPLS LSPs, for example).

   The BFD state machine implements a three-way handshake, both when
   establishing a BFD session and when tearing it down for any reason,
   to ensure that both systems are aware of the state change.








Katz & Ward                  Standards Track                    [Page 4]

RFC 5880           Bidirectional Forwarding Detection          June 2010


   BFD can be abstracted as a simple service.  The service primitives
   provided by BFD are to create, destroy, and modify a session, given
   the destination address and other parameters.  BFD in return provides
   a signal to its clients indicating when the BFD session goes up or
   down.

