6.6.  Demand Mode

   Demand mode is requested independently in each direction by virtue of
   a system setting the Demand (D) bit in its BFD Control packets.  The
   system receiving the Demand bit ceases the periodic transmission of
   BFD Control packets.  If both systems are operating in Demand mode,
   no periodic BFD Control packets will flow in either direction.

   Demand mode requires that some other mechanism is used to imply
   continuing connectivity between the two systems.  The mechanism used
   does not have to be the same in both directions, and is outside of
   the scope of this specification.  One possible mechanism is the
   receipt of traffic from the remote system; another is the use of the
   Echo function.




Katz & Ward                  Standards Track                   [Page 19]

RFC 5880           Bidirectional Forwarding Detection          June 2010


   When a system in Demand mode wishes to verify bidirectional
   connectivity, it initiates a Poll Sequence (see section 6.5).  If no
   response is received to a Poll, the Poll is repeated until the
   Detection Time expires, at which point the session is declared to be
   Down.  Note that if Demand mode is operating only on the local
   system, the Poll Sequence is performed by simply setting the Poll (P)
   bit in regular periodic BFD Control packets, as required by section
   6.5.

   The Detection Time in Demand mode is calculated differently than in
   Asynchronous mode; it is based on the transmit rate of the local
   system, rather than the transmit rate of the remote system.  This
   ensures that the Poll Sequence mechanism works properly.  See section
   6.8.4 for more details.

   Note that the Poll mechanism will always fail unless the negotiated
   Detection Time is greater than the round-trip time between the two
   systems.  Enforcement of this constraint is outside the scope of this
   specification.

   Demand mode MAY be enabled or disabled at any time, independently in
   each direction, by setting or clearing the Demand (D) bit in the BFD
   Control packet, without affecting the BFD session state.  Note that
   the Demand bit MUST NOT be set unless both systems perceive the
   session to be Up (the local system thinks the session is Up, and the
   remote system last reported Up state in the State (Sta) field of the
   BFD Control packet).

   When the transmitted value of the Demand (D) bit is to be changed,
   the transmitting system MUST initiate a Poll Sequence in conjunction
   with changing the bit in order to ensure that both systems are aware
   of the change.

   If Demand mode is active on either or both systems, a Poll Sequence
   MUST be initiated whenever the contents of the next BFD Control
   packet to be sent would be different than the contents of the
   previous packet, with the exception of the Poll (P) and Final (F)
   bits.  This ensures that parameter changes are transmitted to the
   remote system and that the remote system acknowledges these changes.

   Because the underlying detection mechanism is unspecified, and may
   differ between the two systems, the overall Detection Time
   characteristics of the path will not be fully known to either system.
   The total Detection Time for a particular system is the sum of the
   time prior to the initiation of the Poll Sequence, plus the
   calculated Detection Time.





Katz & Ward                  Standards Track                   [Page 20]

RFC 5880           Bidirectional Forwarding Detection          June 2010


   Note that if Demand mode is enabled in only one direction, continuous
   bidirectional connectivity verification is lost (only connectivity in
   the direction from the system in Demand mode to the other system will
   be verified).  Resolving the issue of one system requesting Demand
   mode while the other requires continuous bidirectional connectivity
   verification is outside the scope of this specification.

