6.7.2.  Simple Password Authentication

   The most straightforward (and weakest) form of authentication is
   Simple Password Authentication.  In this method of authentication,
   one or more Passwords (with corresponding Key IDs) are configured in
   each system and one of these Password/ID pairs is carried in each BFD
   Control packet.  The receiving system accepts the packet if the
   Password and Key ID matches one of the Password/ID pairs configured
   in that system.

   Transmission Using Simple Password Authentication

      The currently selected password and Key ID for the session MUST be
      stored in the Authentication Section of each outgoing BFD Control
      packet.  The Auth Type field MUST be set to 1 (Simple Password).
      The Auth Len field MUST be set to the proper length (4 to 19
      bytes).

      The password is a binary string, and MUST be 1 to 16 bytes in
      length.  For interoperability, the management interface by which
      the password is configured MUST accept ASCII strings, and SHOULD
      also allow for the configuration of any arbitrary binary string in
      hexadecimal form.  Other configuration methods MAY be supported.







Katz & Ward                  Standards Track                   [Page 22]

RFC 5880           Bidirectional Forwarding Detection          June 2010


   Reception Using Simple Password Authentication

      If the received BFD Control packet does not contain an
      Authentication Section, or the Auth Type is not 1 (Simple
      Password), then the received packet MUST be discarded.

      If the Auth Key ID field does not match the ID of a configured
      password, the received packet MUST be discarded.

      If the Auth Len field is not equal to the length of the password
      selected by the key ID, plus three, the packet MUST be discarded.

      If the Password field does not match the password selected by the
      key ID, the packet MUST be discarded.

      Otherwise, the packet MUST be accepted.

