6.8.3.  Timer Manipulation

   The time values used to determine BFD packet transmission intervals
   and the session Detection Time may be modified at any time without
   affecting the state of the session.  When the timer parameters are
   changed for any reason, the requirements of this section apply.

   If either bfd.DesiredMinTxInterval is changed or
   bfd.RequiredMinRxInterval is changed, a Poll Sequence MUST be
   initiated (see section 6.5).  If the timing is such that a system
   receiving a Poll Sequence wishes to change the parameters described
   in this paragraph, the new parameter values MAY be carried in packets
   with the Final (F) bit set, even if the Poll Sequence has not yet
   been sent.

   If bfd.DesiredMinTxInterval is increased and bfd.SessionState is Up,
   the actual transmission interval used MUST NOT change until the Poll
   Sequence described above has terminated.  This is to ensure that the
   remote system updates its Detection Time before the transmission
   interval increases.

   If bfd.RequiredMinRxInterval is reduced and bfd.SessionState is Up,
   the previous value of bfd.RequiredMinRxInterval MUST be used when
   calculating the Detection Time for the remote system until the Poll
   Sequence described above has terminated.  This is to ensure that the
   remote system is transmitting packets at the higher rate (and those
   packets are being received) prior to the Detection Time being
   reduced.

   When bfd.SessionState is not Up, the system MUST set
   bfd.DesiredMinTxInterval to a value of not less than one second
   (1,000,000 microseconds).  This is intended to ensure that the
   bandwidth consumed by BFD sessions that are not Up is negligible,
   particularly in the case where a neighbor may not be running BFD.

   If the local system reduces its transmit interval due to
   bfd.RemoteMinRxInterval being reduced (the remote system has
   advertised a reduced value in Required Min RX Interval), and the
   remote system is not in Demand mode, the local system MUST honor the
   new interval immediately.  In other words, the local system cannot
   wait longer than the new interval between the previous packet
   transmission and the next one.  If this interval has already passed
   since the last transmission (because the new interval is
   significantly shorter), the local system MUST send the next periodic
   BFD Control packet as soon as practicable.






Katz & Ward                  Standards Track                   [Page 31]

RFC 5880           Bidirectional Forwarding Detection          June 2010


   When the Echo function is active, a system SHOULD set
   bfd.RequiredMinRxInterval to a value of not less than one second
   (1,000,000 microseconds).  This is intended to keep received BFD
   Control traffic at a negligible level, since the actual detection
   function is being performed using BFD Echo packets.

   In any case other than those explicitly called out above, timing
   parameter changes MUST be effected immediately (changing the
   transmission rate and/or the Detection Time).

   Note that the Poll Sequence mechanism is ambiguous if more than one
   parameter change is made that would require its use, and those
   multiple changes are spread across multiple packets (since the
   semantics of the returning Final are unclear).  Therefore, if
   multiple changes are made that require the use of a Poll Sequence,
   there are three choices: 1) they MUST be communicated in a single BFD
   Control packet (so the semantics of the Final reply are clear), or 2)
   sufficient time must have transpired since the Poll Sequence was
   completed to disambiguate the situation (at least a round trip time
   since the last Poll was transmitted) prior to the initiation of
   another Poll Sequence, or 3) an additional BFD Control packet with
   the Final (F) bit *clear* MUST be received after the Poll Sequence
   has completed prior to the initiation of another Poll Sequence (this
   option is not available when Demand mode is active).

