7.  Operational Considerations

   BFD is likely to be deployed as a critical part of network
   infrastructure.  As such, care should be taken to avoid disruption.

   Obviously, any mechanism that blocks BFD packets, such as firewalls
   or other policy processes, will cause BFD to fail.

   Mechanisms that control packet scheduling, such as policers, traffic
   shapers, priority queueing, etc., have the potential of impacting BFD
   operations if the Detection Time is similar in scale to the scheduled
   packet transmit or receive rate.  The delivery of BFD packets is
   time-critical, relative to the magnitude of the Detection Time, so
   this may need to be taken into account in implementation and
   deployment, particularly when very short Detection Times are to be
   used.

   When BFD is used across multiple hops, a congestion control mechanism
   MUST be implemented, and when congestion is detected, the BFD
   implementation MUST reduce the amount of traffic it generates.  The
   exact mechanism used is outside the scope of this specification, and
   the requirements of this mechanism may differ depending on how BFD is
   deployed, and how it interacts with other parts of the system (for
   example, exponential backoff may not be appropriate in cases where
   routing protocols are interacting closely with BFD).

   Note that "congestion" is not only a traffic phenomenon, but also a
   computational one.  It is possible for systems with a large number of
   BFD sessions and/or very short packet intervals to become CPU-bound.
   As such, a congestion control algorithm SHOULD be used even across
   single hops in order to avoid the possibility of catastrophic system
   collapse, as such failures have been seen repeatedly in other
   periodic Hello-based protocols.

   The mechanisms for detecting congestion are outside the scope of this
   specification, but may include the detection of lost BFD Control
   packets (by virtue of holes in the authentication sequence number
   space, or by BFD session failure) or other means.

   The mechanisms for reducing BFD's traffic load are the control of the
   local and remote packet transmission rate via the Min RX Interval and
   Min TX Interval fields.

   Note that any mechanism that increases the transmit or receive
   intervals will increase the Detection Time for the session.






Katz & Ward                  Standards Track                   [Page 43]

RFC 5880           Bidirectional Forwarding Detection          June 2010


   It is worth noting that a single BFD session does not consume a large
   amount of bandwidth.  An aggressive session that achieves a detection
   time of 50 milliseconds, by using a transmit interval of 16.7
   milliseconds and a detect multiplier of 3, will generate 60 packets
   per second.  The maximum length of each packet on the wire is on the
   order of 100 bytes, for a total of around 48 kilobits per second of
   bandwidth consumption in each direction.

