9.  Security Considerations

   As BFD may be tied into the stability of the network infrastructure
   (such as routing protocols), the effects of an attack on a BFD
   session may be very serious: a link may be falsely declared to be
   down, or falsely declared to be up; in either case, the effect is
   denial of service.

   An attacker who is in complete control of the link between the
   systems can easily drop all BFD packets but forward everything else
   (causing the link to be falsely declared down), or forward only the
   BFD packets but nothing else (causing the link to be falsely declared
   up).  This attack cannot be prevented by BFD.

   To mitigate threats from less capable attackers, BFD specifies two
   mechanisms to prevent spoofing of BFD Control packets.  The
   Generalized TTL Security Mechanism [GTSM] uses the time to live (TTL)
   or Hop Count to prevent off-link attackers from spoofing packets.
   The Authentication Section authenticates the BFD Control packets.
   These mechanisms are described in more detail below.

   When a BFD session is directly connected across a single link
   (physical, or a secure tunnel such as IPsec), the TTL or Hop Count
   MUST be set to the maximum on transmit, and checked to be equal to
   the maximum value on reception (and the packet dropped if this is not
   the case).  See [GTSM] for more information on this technique.  If
   BFD is run across multiple hops or an insecure tunnel (such as
   Generic Routing Encapsulation (GRE)), the Authentication Section
   SHOULD be utilized.

   The level of security provided by the Authentication Section varies
   based on the authentication type used.  Simple Password
   authentication is obviously only as secure as the secrecy of the
   passwords used, and should be considered only if the BFD session is
   guaranteed to be run over an infrastructure not subject to packet
   interception.  Its chief advantage is that it minimizes the
   computational effort required for authentication.

   Keyed MD5 Authentication is much stronger than Simple Password
   Authentication since the keys cannot be discerned by intercepting
   packets.  It is vulnerable to replay attacks in between increments of
   the sequence number.  The sequence number can be incremented as
   seldom (or as often) as desired, trading off resistance to replay
   attacks with the computational effort required for authentication.

   Meticulous Keyed MD5 authentication is stronger yet, as it requires
   the sequence number to be incremented for every packet.  Replay
   attack vulnerability is reduced due to the requirement that the



Katz & Ward                  Standards Track                   [Page 45]

RFC 5880           Bidirectional Forwarding Detection          June 2010


   sequence number must be incremented on every packet, the window size
   of acceptable packets is small, and the initial sequence number is
   randomized.  There is still a window of attack at the beginning of
   the session while the sequence number is being determined.  This
   authentication scheme requires an MD5 calculation on every packet
   transmitted and received.

   Using SHA1 is believed to have stronger security properties than MD5.
   All comments about MD5 in this section also apply to SHA1.

   Both Keyed MD5/SHA1 and Meticulous Keyed MD5/SHA1 use the "secret
   suffix" construction (also called "append only") in which the shared
   secret key is appended to the data before calculating the hash,
   instead of the more common Hashed Message Authentication Code (HMAC)
   construction [HMAC].  This construction is believed to be appropriate
   for BFD, but designers of any additional authentication mechanisms
   for BFD are encouraged to read [HMAC] and its references.

   If both systems randomize their Local Discriminator values at the
   beginning of a session, replay attacks may be further mitigated,
   regardless of the authentication type in use.  Since the Local
   Discriminator may be changed at any time during a session, this
   mechanism may also help mitigate attacks.

   The security implications of the use of BFD Echo packets are
   dependent on how those packets are defined, since their structure is
   local to the transmitting system and outside the scope of this
   specification.  However, since Echo packets are defined and processed
   only by the transmitting system, the use of cryptographic
   authentication does not guarantee that the other system is actually
   alive; an attacker could loop the Echo packets back (without knowing
   any secret keys) and cause the link to be falsely declared to be up.
   This can be mitigated by using a suitable interval for BFD Control
   packets.  [GTSM] could be applied to BFD Echo packets, though the
   TTL/Hop Count will be decremented by 1 in the course of echoing the
   packet, so spoofing is possible from one hop away.

