Abstract

   This document describes the use of Transport Layer Security (TLS) to
   provide privacy for DNS.  Encryption provided by TLS eliminates
   opportunities for eavesdropping and on-path tampering with DNS
   queries in the network, such as discussed in RFC 7626.  In addition,
   this document specifies two usage profiles for DNS over TLS and
   provides advice on performance considerations to minimize overhead
   from using TCP and TLS with DNS.

   This document focuses on securing stub-to-recursive traffic, as per
   the charter of the DPRIVE Working Group.  It does not prevent future
   applications of the protocol to recursive-to-authoritative traffic.

Status of This Memo

   This is an Internet Standards Track document.

   This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force
   (IETF).  It represents the consensus of the IETF community.  It has
   received public review and has been approved for publication by the
   Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG).  Further information on
   Internet Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 5741.

   Information about the current status of this document, any errata,
   and how to provide feedback on it may be obtained at
   http://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7858.









Hu, et al.                   Standards Track                    [Page 1]

RFC 7858                      DNS over TLS                      May 2016


Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2016 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents
   (http://trustee.ietf.org/license-info) in effect on the date of
   publication of this document.  Please review these documents
   carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions with respect
   to this document.  Code Components extracted from this document must
   include Simplified BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of
   the Trust Legal Provisions and are provided without warranty as
   described in the Simplified BSD License.

