1.  Introduction

   Today, nearly all DNS queries [RFC1034] [RFC1035] are sent
   unencrypted, which makes them vulnerable to eavesdropping by an
   attacker that has access to the network channel, reducing the privacy
   of the querier.  Recent news reports have elevated these concerns,
   and recent IETF work has specified privacy considerations for DNS
   [RFC7626].

   Prior work has addressed some aspects of DNS security, but until
   recently, there has been little work on privacy between a DNS client
   and server.  DNS Security Extensions (DNSSEC) [RFC4033] provide
   _response integrity_ by defining mechanisms to cryptographically sign
   zones, allowing end users (or their first-hop resolver) to verify
   replies are correct.  By intention, DNSSEC does not protect request
   and response privacy.  Traditionally, either privacy was not
   considered a requirement for DNS traffic or it was assumed that
   network traffic was sufficiently private; however, these perceptions
   are evolving due to recent events [RFC7258].

   Other work that has offered the potential to encrypt between DNS
   clients and servers includes DNSCurve [DNSCurve], DNSCrypt
   [DNSCRYPT-WEBSITE], Confidential DNS [CONFIDENTIAL-DNS], and IPSECA
   [IPSECA].  In addition to the present specification, the DPRIVE
   Working Group has also adopted a proposal for DNS over Datagram
   Transport Layer Security (DTLS) [DNSoD].

   This document describes using DNS over TLS on a well-known port and
   also offers advice on performance considerations to minimize
   overheads from using TCP and TLS with DNS.

   Initiation of DNS over TLS is very straightforward.  By establishing
   a connection over a well-known port, clients and servers expect and
   agree to negotiate a TLS session to secure the channel.  Deployment
   will be gradual.  Not all servers will support DNS over TLS and the
   well-known port might be blocked by some firewalls.  Clients will be
   expected to keep track of servers that support TLS and those that
   don't.  Clients and servers will adhere to the TLS implementation
   recommendations and security considerations of [BCP195].

   The protocol described here works for queries and responses between
   stub clients and recursive servers.  It might work equally between
   recursive clients and authoritative servers, but this application of
   the protocol is out of scope for the DNS PRIVate Exchange (DPRIVE)
   Working Group per its current charter.






Hu, et al.                   Standards Track                    [Page 3]

RFC 7858                      DNS over TLS                      May 2016


   This document describes two profiles in Section 4 that provide
   different levels of assurance of privacy: an opportunistic privacy
   profile and an out-of-band key-pinned privacy profile.  It is
   expected that a future document based on [TLS-DTLS-PROFILES] will
   further describe additional privacy profiles for DNS over both TLS
   and DTLS.

   An earlier draft version of this document described a technique for
   upgrading a DNS-over-TCP connection to a DNS-over-TLS session with,
   essentially, "STARTTLS for DNS".  To simplify the protocol, this
   document now only uses a well-known port to specify TLS use, omitting
   the upgrade approach.  The upgrade approach no longer appears in this
   document, which now focuses exclusively on the use of a well-known
   port for DNS over TLS.

