7.  Design Evolution

   Earlier draft versions of this document proposed an upgrade-based
   approach to establish a TLS session.  The client would signal its
   interest in TLS by setting a "TLS OK" bit in the Extensions
   Mechanisms for DNS (EDNS(0)) flags field.  A server would signal its
   acceptance by responding with the TLS OK bit set.

   Since we assume the client doesn't want to reveal (leak) any
   information prior to securing the channel, we proposed the use of a
   "dummy query" that clients could send for this purpose.  The proposed
   query name was STARTTLS, query type TXT, and query class CH.

   The TLS OK signaling approach has both advantages and disadvantages.
   One important advantage is that clients and servers could negotiate
   TLS.  If the server is too busy, or doesn't want to provide TLS
   service to a particular client, it can respond negatively to the TLS
   probe.  An ancillary benefit is that servers could collect
   information on adoption of DNS over TLS (via the TLS OK bit in
   queries) before implementation and deployment.  Another anticipated
   advantage is the expectation that DNS over TLS would work over port
   53.  That is, no need to "waste" another port and deploy new firewall
   rules on middleboxes.




Hu, et al.                   Standards Track                   [Page 10]

RFC 7858                      DNS over TLS                      May 2016


   However, at the same time, there was uncertainty whether or not
   middleboxes would pass the TLS OK bit, given that the EDNS0 flags
   field has been unchanged for many years.  Another disadvantage is
   that the TLS OK bit may make downgrade attacks easy and
   indistinguishable from broken middleboxes.  From a performance
   standpoint, the upgrade-based approach had the disadvantage of
   requiring 1xRTT additional latency for the dummy query.

   Following this proposal, DNS over DTLS was proposed separately.  DNS
   over DTLS claimed it could work over port 53, but only because a non-
   DTLS server interprets a DNS-over-DTLS query as a response.  That is,
   the non-DTLS server observes the QR flag set to 1.  While this
   technically works, it seems unfortunate and perhaps even undesirable.

   DNS over both TLS and DTLS can benefit from a single well-known port
   and avoid extra latency and misinterpreted queries as responses.

