27.2 Symbolic Modes
===================

“Symbolic modes” represent changes to files’ mode bits as operations on
single-character symbols.  They allow you to modify either all or
selected parts of files’ mode bits, optionally based on their previous
values, and perhaps on the current ‘umask’ as well (*note Umask and
Protection::).

   The format of symbolic modes is:

     [ugoa...][-+=]PERMS...[,...]

where PERMS is either zero or more letters from the set ‘rwxXst’, or a
single letter from the set ‘ugo’.

   The following sections describe the operators and other details of
symbolic modes.

* Menu:

* Setting Permissions::          Basic operations on permissions.
* Copying Permissions::          Copying existing permissions.
* Changing Special Mode Bits::   Special mode bits.
* Conditional Executability::    Conditionally affecting executability.
* Multiple Changes::             Making multiple changes.
* Umask and Protection::              The effect of the umask.

File: coreutils.info,  Node: Setting Permissions,  Next: Copying Permissions,  Up: Symbolic Modes

27.2.1 Setting Permissions
--------------------------

The basic symbolic operations on a file’s permissions are adding,
removing, and setting the permission that certain users have to read,
write, and execute or search the file.  These operations have the
following format:

     USERS OPERATION PERMISSIONS

The spaces between the three parts above are shown for readability only;
symbolic modes cannot contain spaces.

   The USERS part tells which users’ access to the file is changed.  It
consists of one or more of the following letters (or it can be empty;
*note Umask and Protection::, for a description of what happens then).
When more than one of these letters is given, the order that they are in
does not matter.

‘u’
     the user who owns the file;
‘g’
     other users who are in the file’s group;
‘o’
     all other users;
‘a’
     all users; the same as ‘ugo’.

   The OPERATION part tells how to change the affected users’ access to
the file, and is one of the following symbols:

‘+’
     to add the PERMISSIONS to whatever permissions the USERS already
     have for the file;
‘-’
     to remove the PERMISSIONS from whatever permissions the USERS
     already have for the file;
‘=’
     to make the PERMISSIONS the only permissions that the USERS have
     for the file.

   The PERMISSIONS part tells what kind of access to the file should be
changed; it is normally zero or more of the following letters.  As with
the USERS part, the order does not matter when more than one letter is
given.  Omitting the PERMISSIONS part is useful only with the ‘=’
operation, where it gives the specified USERS no access at all to the
file.

‘r’
     the permission the USERS have to read the file;
‘w’
     the permission the USERS have to write to the file;
‘x’
     the permission the USERS have to execute the file, or search it if
     it is a directory.

   For example, to give everyone permission to read and write a regular
file, but not to execute it, use:

     a=rw

   To remove write permission for all users other than the file’s owner,
use:

     go-w

The above command does not affect the access that the owner of the file
has to it, nor does it affect whether other users can read or execute
the file.

   To give everyone except a file’s owner no permission to do anything
with that file, use the mode below.  Other users could still remove the
file, if they have write permission on the directory it is in.

     go=

Another way to specify the same thing is:

     og-rwx

File: coreutils.info,  Node: Copying Permissions,  Next: Changing Special Mode Bits,  Prev: Setting Permissions,  Up: Symbolic Modes

27.2.2 Copying Existing Permissions
-----------------------------------

You can base a file’s permissions on its existing permissions.  To do
this, instead of using a series of ‘r’, ‘w’, or ‘x’ letters after the
operator, you use the letter ‘u’, ‘g’, or ‘o’.  For example, the mode

     o+g

adds the permissions for users who are in a file’s group to the
permissions that other users have for the file.  Thus, if the file
started out as mode 664 (‘rw-rw-r--’), the above mode would change it to
mode 666 (‘rw-rw-rw-’).  If the file had started out as mode 741
(‘rwxr----x’), the above mode would change it to mode 745 (‘rwxr--r-x’).
The ‘-’ and ‘=’ operations work analogously.

File: coreutils.info,  Node: Changing Special Mode Bits,  Next: Conditional Executability,  Prev: Copying Permissions,  Up: Symbolic Modes

27.2.3 Changing Special Mode Bits
---------------------------------

In addition to changing a file’s read, write, and execute/search
permissions, you can change its special mode bits.  *Note Mode
Structure::, for a summary of these special mode bits.

   To change the file mode bits to set the user ID on execution, use ‘u’
in the USERS part of the symbolic mode and ‘s’ in the PERMISSIONS part.

   To change the file mode bits to set the group ID on execution, use
‘g’ in the USERS part of the symbolic mode and ‘s’ in the PERMISSIONS
part.

   To set both user and group ID on execution, omit the USERS part of
the symbolic mode (or use ‘a’) and use ‘s’ in the PERMISSIONS part.

   To change the file mode bits to set the restricted deletion flag or
sticky bit, omit the USERS part of the symbolic mode (or use ‘a’) and
use ‘t’ in the PERMISSIONS part.

   For example, to set the set-user-ID mode bit of a program, you can
use the mode:

     u+s

   To remove both set-user-ID and set-group-ID mode bits from it, you
can use the mode:

     a-s

   To set the restricted deletion flag or sticky bit, you can use the
mode:

     +t

   The combination ‘o+s’ has no effect.  On GNU systems the combinations
‘u+t’ and ‘g+t’ have no effect, and ‘o+t’ acts like plain ‘+t’.

   The ‘=’ operator is not very useful with special mode bits.  For
example, the mode:

     o=t

does set the restricted deletion flag or sticky bit, but it also removes
all read, write, and execute/search permissions that users not in the
file’s group might have had for it.

   *Note Directory Setuid and Setgid::, for additional rules concerning
set-user-ID and set-group-ID bits and directories.

File: coreutils.info,  Node: Conditional Executability,  Next: Multiple Changes,  Prev: Changing Special Mode Bits,  Up: Symbolic Modes

27.2.4 Conditional Executability
--------------------------------

There is one more special type of symbolic permission: if you use ‘X’
instead of ‘x’, execute/search permission is affected only if the file
is a directory or already had execute permission.

   For example, this mode:

     a+X

gives all users permission to search directories, or to execute files if
anyone could execute them before.

File: coreutils.info,  Node: Multiple Changes,  Next: Umask and Protection,  Prev: Conditional Executability,  Up: Symbolic Modes

27.2.5 Making Multiple Changes
------------------------------

The format of symbolic modes is actually more complex than described
above (*note Setting Permissions::).  It provides two ways to make
multiple changes to files’ mode bits.

   The first way is to specify multiple OPERATION and PERMISSIONS parts
after a USERS part in the symbolic mode.

   For example, the mode:

     og+rX-w

gives users other than the owner of the file read permission and, if it
is a directory or if someone already had execute permission to it, gives
them execute/search permission; and it also denies them write permission
to the file.  It does not affect the permission that the owner of the
file has for it.  The above mode is equivalent to the two modes:

     og+rX
     og-w

   The second way to make multiple changes is to specify more than one
simple symbolic mode, separated by commas.  For example, the mode:

     a+r,go-w

gives everyone permission to read the file and removes write permission
on it for all users except its owner.  Another example:

     u=rwx,g=rx,o=

sets all of the permission bits for the file explicitly.  (It gives
users who are not in the file’s group no permission at all for it.)

   The two methods can be combined.  The mode:

     a+r,g+x-w

gives all users permission to read the file, and gives users who are in
the file’s group permission to execute/search it as well, but not
permission to write to it.  The above mode could be written in several
different ways; another is:

     u+r,g+rx,o+r,g-w

File: coreutils.info,  Node: Umask and Protection,  Prev: Multiple Changes,  Up: Symbolic Modes

27.2.6 The Umask and Protection
-------------------------------

If the USERS part of a symbolic mode is omitted, it defaults to ‘a’
(affect all users), except that any permissions that are _set_ in the
system variable ‘umask’ are _not affected_.  The value of ‘umask’ can be
set using the ‘umask’ command.  Its default value varies from system to
system.

   Omitting the USERS part of a symbolic mode is generally not useful
with operations other than ‘+’.  It is useful with ‘+’ because it allows
you to use ‘umask’ as an easily customizable protection against giving
away more permission to files than you intended to.

   As an example, if ‘umask’ has the value 2, which removes write
permission for users who are not in the file’s group, then the mode:

     +w

adds permission to write to the file to its owner and to other users who
are in the file’s group, but _not_ to other users.  In contrast, the
mode:

     a+w

ignores ‘umask’, and _does_ give write permission for the file to all
users.

File: coreutils.info,  Node: Numeric Modes,  Next: Operator Numeric Modes,  Prev: Symbolic Modes,  Up: File permissions

