9. Rationale						*vim9-rationale*

The :def command ~

Plugin writers have asked for a much faster Vim script.  Investigation have
shown that keeping the existing semantics of function calls make this close to
impossible, because of the overhead involved with calling a function, setting
up the local function scope and executing lines.  There are many details that
need to be handled, such as error messages and exceptions.  The need to create
a dictionary for a: and l: scopes, the a:000 list and several others add too
much overhead that cannot be avoided.

Therefore the `:def` method to define a new-style function had to be added,
which allows for a function with different semantics.  Most things still work
as before, but some parts do not.  A new way to define a function was
considered the best way to separate the old-style code from Vim9 script code.

Using "def" to define a function comes from Python. Other languages use
"function" which clashes with legacy Vim script.


Type checking ~

When compiling lines of Vim commands into instructions as much as possible
should be done at compile time.  Postponing it to runtime makes the execution
slower and means mistakes are found only later.  For example, when
encountering the "+" character and compiling this into a generic add
instruction, at execution time the instruction would have to inspect the type
of the arguments and decide what kind of addition to do.  And when the
type is dictionary throw an error.  If the types are known to be numbers then
an "add number" instruction can be used, which is faster.  The error can be
given at compile time, no error handling is needed at runtime.

The syntax for types is similar to Java, since it is easy to understand and
widely used.  The type names are what was used in Vim before, with some
additions such as "void" and "bool".


Compiling functions early ~

Functions are compiled when called or when `:defcompile` is used.  Why not
compile them early, so that syntax and type errors are reported early?

The functions can't be compiled right away when encountered, because there may
be forward references to functions defined later.  Consider defining functions
A, B and C, where A calls B, B calls C, and C calls A again.  It's impossible
to reorder the functions to avoid forward references.

An alternative would be to first scan through the file to locate items and
figure out their type, so that forward references are found, and only then
execute the script and compile the functions.  This means the script has to be
parsed twice, which is slower, and some conditions at the script level, such
as checking if a feature is supported, are hard to use.  An attempt was made
to see if it works, but it turned out to be impossible to make work nicely.

It would be possible to compile all the functions at the end of the script.
The drawback is that if a function never gets called, the overhead of
compiling it counts anyway.  Since startup speed is very important, in most
cases it's better to do it later and accept that syntax and type errors are
only reported then.  In case these errors should be found early, e.g. when
testing, the `:defcompile` command will help out.


TypeScript syntax and semantics ~

Script writers have complained that the Vim script syntax is unexpectedly
different from what they are used to.  To reduce this complaint popular
languages are used as an example.  At the same time, we do not want to abandon
the well-known parts of legacy Vim script.

Since Vim already uses `:let` and `:const` and optional type checking is
desirable, the JavaScript/TypeScript syntax fits best for variable
declarations. >
	const greeting = 'hello'  " string type is inferred
	let name: string
	...
	name = 'John'

Expression evaluation was already close to what JavaScript and other languages
are doing.  Some details are unexpected and can be fixed.  For example how the
|| and && operators work.  Legacy Vim script: >
	let result = 44
	...
	return result || 0	" returns 1

Vim9 script works like JavaScript/Typescript, keep the value: >
	let result = 44
	...
	return result || 0	" returns 44

On the other hand, overloading "+" to use both for addition and string
concatenation goes against legacy Vim script and often leads to mistakes.
For that reason we will keep using ".." for string concatenation.  Lua also
uses ".." this way.


Import and Export ~

A problem of legacy Vim script is that by default all functions and variables
are global.  It is possible to make them script-local, but then they are not
available in other scripts.

In Vim9 script a mechanism very similar to the Javascript import and export
mechanism is supported.  It is a variant to the existing `:source` command
that works like one would expect:
- Instead of making everything global by default, everything is script-local,
  unless exported.
- When importing a script the symbols that are imported are listed, avoiding
  name conflicts and failures if later functionality is added.
- The mechanism allows for writing a big, long script with a very clear API:
  the exported function(s) and class(es).
- By using relative paths loading can be much faster for an import inside of a
  package, no need to search many directories.
- Once an import has been used, it can be cached and loading it again can be
  avoided.
- The Vim-specific use of "s:" to make things script-local can be dropped.

When sourcing a Vim9 script from a legacy script, only the items defined
globally can be used, not the exported items.  Alternatives considered:
- All the exported items become available as script-local items.  This makes
  it uncontrollable what items get defined.
- Use the exported items and make them global.  Disadvantage is that it's then
  not possible to avoid name clashes in the global namespace.
- Completely disallow sourcing a Vim9 script, require using `:import`.  That
  makes it difficult to use scripts for testing, or sourcing them from the
  command line to try them out.


Classes ~

Vim supports interfaces to Perl, Python, Lua, Tcl and a few others.  But
these have never become widespread.  When Vim 9 was designed a decision was
made to phase out these interfaces and concentrate on Vim script, while
encouraging plugin authors to write code in any language and run it as an
external tool, using jobs and channels.

Still, using an external tool has disadvantages.  An alternative is to convert
the tool into Vim script.  For that to be possible without too much
translation, and keeping the code fast at the same time, the constructs of the
tool need to be supported.  Since most languages support classes the lack of
class support in Vim is then a problem.

Previously Vim supported a kind-of object oriented programming by adding
methods to a dictionary.  With some care this could be made to work, but it
does not look like real classes.  On top of that, it's very slow, because of
the use of dictionaries.

The support of classes in Vim9 script is a "minimal common functionality" of
class support in most languages.  It works mostly like Java, which is the most
popular programming language.



 vim:tw=78:ts=8:noet:ft=help:norl:
