3.2 Modifications To The Neighbor State Machine

   The state machine as it exists in section 10.3 of [OSPF] remains
   unchanged except for the action associated with State: ExStart,
   Event: NegotiationDone which is where the Database summary list is
   built.  To incorporate the Opaque LSA in OSPF this action is changed
   to the following.

     State(s):  ExStart

       Event:  NegotiationDone

     New state:  Exchange

       Action:  The router must list the contents of its entire area
                link-state database in the neighbor Database summary
                list.  The area link-state database consists of the
                Router LSAs, Network LSAs, Summary LSAs and types 9 and
                10 Opaque LSAs contained in the area structure, along
                with AS External and type-11 Opaque LSAs contained in
                the global structure. AS External and type-11 Opaque
                LSAs are omitted from a virtual neighbor's Database
                summary list. AS External LSAs and type-11 Opaque LSAs
                are omitted from the Database summary list if the area
                has been configured as a stub area (see Section 3.6 of
                [OSPF]).

                Type-9 Opaque LSAs are omitted from the Database summary
                list if the interface associated with the neighbor is
                not the interface associated with the Opaque LSA (as
                noted upon reception).





Coltun                      Standards Track                     [Page 5]

RFC 2370               The OSPF Opaque LSA Option              July 1998


                Any advertisement whose age is equal to MaxAge is
                omitted from the Database summary list. It is instead
                added to the neighbor's link-state retransmission list.
                A summary of the Database summary list will be sent to
                the neighbor in Database Description packets.  Each
                Database Description Packet has a DD sequence number,
                and is explicitly acknowledged.  Only one Database
                Description Packet is allowed to be outstanding at any
                one time. For more detail on the sending and receiving
                of Database Description packets, see Sections 10.6 and
                10.8 of [OSPF].

