3.0 The Opaque LSA

   Opaque LSAs are types 9, 10 and 11 link-state advertisements.  Opaque
   LSAs consist of a standard LSA header followed by a 32-bit aligned
   application-specific information field.  Standard link-state database
   flooding mechanisms are used for distribution of Opaque LSAs.  The
   range of topological distribution (i.e., the flooding scope) of an
   Opaque LSA is identified by its link-state type.  This section
   documents the flooding of Opaque LSAs.

   The flooding scope associated with each Opaque link-state type is
   defined as follows.

     o Link-state type 9 denotes a link-local scope. Type-9 Opaque
       LSAs are not flooded beyond the local (sub)network.

     o Link-state type 10 denotes an area-local scope. Type-10 Opaque
       LSAs are not flooded beyond the borders of their associated area.

     o Link-state type 11 denotes that the LSA is flooded throughout
       the Autonomous System (AS). The flooding scope of type-11
       LSAs are equivalent to the flooding scope of AS-external (type-5)
       LSAs.  Specifically type-11 Opaque LSAs are 1) flooded throughout
       all transit areas, 2) not flooded into stub areas from the
       backbone and 3) not originated by routers into their connected
       stub areas.  As with type-5 LSAs, if a type-11 Opaque LSA is
       received in a stub area from a neighboring router within the
       stub area the LSA is rejected.

   The link-state ID of the Opaque LSA is divided into an Opaque type
   field (the first 8 bits) and a type-specific ID (the remaining 24
   bits).  The packet format of the Opaque LSA is given in Appendix A.
   Section 7.0 describes Opaque type allocation and assignment.

   The responsibility for proper handling of the Opaque LSA's flooding
   scope is placed on both the sender and receiver of the LSA.  The
   receiver must always store a valid received Opaque LSA in its link-
   state database.  The receiver must not accept Opaque LSAs that
   violate the flooding scope (e.g., a type-11 (domain-wide) Opaque LSA
   is not accepted in a stub area).  The flooding scope effects both the




Coltun                      Standards Track                     [Page 3]

RFC 2370               The OSPF Opaque LSA Option              July 1998


   synchronization of the link-state database and the flooding
   procedure.

   The following describes the modifications to these procedures that
   are necessary to insure conformance to the Opaque LSA's Scoping
   Rules.

