3.1  Flooding Opaque LSAs

   The flooding of Opaque LSAs must follow the rules of Flooding Scope
   as specified in this section.  Section 13 of [OSPF] describes the
   OSPF flooding procedure.  The following describes the Opaque LSA's
   type-specific flooding restrictions.

     o If the Opaque LSA is type 9 (the flooding scope is link-local)
       and the interface that the LSA was received on is not the same as
       the target interface (e.g., the interface associated with a
       particular target neighbor), the Opaque LSA must not be flooded
       out that interface (or to that neighbor).  An implementation
       should keepk track of the IP interface associated with each
       Opaque LSA having a link-local flooding scope.

     o If the Opaque LSA is type 10 (the flooding scope is area-local)
       and the area associated with Opaque LSA (upon reception) is not
       the same as the area associated with the target interface, the
       Opaque LSA must not be flooded out the interface.  An
       implementation should keep track of the OSPF area associated
       with each Opaque LSA having an area-local flooding scope.

     o If the Opaque LSA is type 11 (the LSA is flooded throughout the
       AS) and the target interface is associated with a stub area the
       Opaque LSA must not be flooded out the interface.  A type-11
       Opaque LSA that is received on an interface associated with a
       stub area must be discarded and not acknowledged (the
       neighboring router has flooded the LSA in error).

   When opaque-capable routers and non-opaque-capable OSPF routers are
   mixed together in a routing domain, the Opaque LSAs are not flooded
   to the non-opaque-capable routers. As a general design principle,
   optional OSPF advertisements are only flooded to those routers that
   understand them.

   An opaque-capable router learns of its neighbor's opaque capability
   at the beginning of the "Database Exchange Process" (see Section 10.6
   of [OSPF], receiving Database Description packets from a neighbor in
   state ExStart). A neighbor is opaque-capable if and only if it sets
   the O-bit in the Options field of its Database Description packets;
   the O-bit is not set in packets other than Database Description



Coltun                      Standards Track                     [Page 4]

RFC 2370               The OSPF Opaque LSA Option              July 1998


   packets.  Then, in the next step of the Database Exchange process,
   Opaque LSAs are included in the Database summary list that is sent to
   the neighbor (see Sections 3.2 below and 10.3 of [OSPF]) if and only
   if the neighbor is opaque capable.

   When flooding Opaque-LSAs to adjacent neighbors, a opaque-capable
   router looks at the neighbor's opaque capability.  Opaque LSAs are
   only flooded to opaque-capable neighbors. To be more precise, in
   Section 13.3 of [OSPF], Opaque LSAs are only placed on the link-state
   retransmission lists of opaque-capable neighbors.  However, when send
   ing Link State Update packets as multicasts, a non-opaque-capable
   neighbor may (inadvertently) receive Opaque LSAs. The non-opaque-
   capable router will then simply discard the LSA (see Section 13 of
   [OSPF], receiving LSAs having unknown LS types).

