6.0 Security Considerations

   There are two types of issues that need be addressed when looking at
   protecting routing protocols from misconfigurations and malicious
   attacks.  The first is authentication and certification of routing
   protocol information.  The second is denial of service attacks
   resulting from repetitive origination of the same router
   advertisement or origination a large number of distinct
   advertisements resulting in database overflow.  Note that both of
   these concerns exist independently of a router's support for the
   Opaque option.

   To address the authentication concerns, OSPF protocol exchanges are
   authenticated.  OSPF supports multiple types of authentication; the
   type of authentication in use can be configured on a per network
   segment basis. One of OSPF's authentication types, namely the
   Cryptographic authentication option, is believed to be secure against
   passive attacks and provide significant protection against active
   attacks. When using the Cryptographic authentication option, each
   router appends a "message digest" to its transmitted OSPF packets.
   Receivers then use the shared secret key and received digest to
   verify that each received OSPF packet is authentic.

   The quality of the security provided by the Cryptographic
   authentication option depends completely on the strength of the
   message digest algorithm (MD5 is currently the only message digest
   algorithm specified), the strength of the key being used, and the
   correct implementation of the security mechanism in all communicating
   OSPF implementations. It also requires that all parties maintain the
   secrecy of the shared secret key.  None of the standard OSPF
   authentication types provide confidentiality. Nor do they protect
   against traffic analysis.  For more information on the standard OSPF
   security mechanisms, see Sections 8.1, 8.2, and Appendix D of [OSPF].

   [DIGI] describes the extensions to OSPF required to add digital
   signature authentication to Link State data and to provide a
   certification mechanism for router data.  [DIGI] also describes the
   added LSA processing and key management as well as a method for
   migration from, or co-existence with, standard OSPF V2.

   Repetitive origination of advertisements are addressed by OSPF by
   mandating a limit on the frequency that new instances of any
   particular LSA can be originated and accepted during the flooding
   procedure.  The frequency at which new LSA instances may be



Coltun                      Standards Track                     [Page 9]

RFC 2370               The OSPF Opaque LSA Option              July 1998


   originated is set equal to once every MinLSInterval seconds, whose
   value is 5 seconds (see Section 12.4 of [OSPF]).  The frequency at
   which new LSA instances are accepted during flooding is once every
   MinLSArrival seconds, whose value is set to 1 (see Section 13,
   Appendix B and G.5 of [OSPF]).

   Proper operation of the OSPF protocol requires that all OSPF routers
   maintain an identical copy of the OSPF link-state database.  However,
   when the size of the link-state database becomes very large, some
   routers may be unable to keep the entire database due to resource
   shortages; we term this "database overflow".  When database overflow
   is anticipated, the routers with limited resources can be
   accommodated by configuring OSPF stub areas and NSSAs.  [OVERFLOW]
   details a way of gracefully handling unanticipated database
   overflows.

