COMPILE TIME CHANGES					*compile-changes-6*

All generated files have been moved out of the "src" directory.  This makes it
easy to see which files are not edited by hand.  The files generated by
configure are now in the "src/auto" directory.  For Unix, compiled object
files go in the objects directory.

The source archive was over the 1.4M floppy limit.  The archives are now split
up into two runtime and two source archives.  Also provide a bzip2 compressed
archive that contains all the sources and runtime files.

Added "reconfig" as a target for make.  Useful when changing some of the
arguments that require flushing the cache, such as switching from GTK to
Motif.  Adjusted the meaning of GUI_INC_LOC and GUI_LIB_LOC to be consistent
over different GUIs.

Added src/README.txt to give an overview of the main parts of the source code.

The Unix Makefile now fully supports using $(DESTDIR) to install to a specific
location.  Replaces the manual setting of *ENDLOC variables.

Added the possibility for a maintainer of a binary version to include his
e-mail address with the --with-compiledby configure argument.

Included features are now grouped in "tiny", "small", "normal", "big" and
"huge".  This replaces "min-features" and "max-features".  Using "tiny"
disables multiple windows for a really small Vim.

For the tiny version or when FEAT_WINDOWS is not defined: Firstwin and lastwin
are equal to curwin and don't use w_next and w_prev.

Added the +listcmds feature.  Can be used to compile without the Vim commands
that manipulate the buffer list and argument list (the buffer list itself is
still there, can't do without it).

Added the +vreplace feature.  It is disabled in the "small" version to avoid
that the 16 bit DOS version runs out of memory.

Removed GTK+ support for versions older than 1.1.16.

The configure checks for using PTYs have been improved.  Code taken from a
recent version of screen.

Added configure options to install Vim, Ex and View under another name (e.g.,
vim6, ex6 and view6).

Added "--with-global-runtime" configure argument.  Allows specifying the
global directory used in the 'runtimepath' default.

Made enabling the SNiFF+ interface possible with a configure argument.

Configure now always checks /usr/local/lib for libraries and
/usr/local/include for include files.  Helps finding the stuff for iconv() and
gettext().

Moved the command line history stuff into the +cmdline_hist feature, to
exclude the command line history from the tiny version.

MS-Windows: Moved common functions from Win16 and Win32 to os_mswin.c.  Avoids
having to change two files for one problem.  (Vince Negri)

Moved common code from gui_w16.c and gui_w32.c to gui_w48.c (Vince Negri)

The jumplist is now a separate feature.  It is disabled for the "small"
version (16 bit MS-DOS).

Renamed all types ending in _t to end in _T.  Avoids potential problems with
system types.

Added a configure check for X11 header files that implicitly define the return
type to int. (Steve Wall)

"make doslang" in the top directory makes an archive with the menu and .mo
files for Windows.  This uses the files generated on Unix, these should work
on MS-Windows as well.

Merged a large part of os_vms.c with os_unix.c.  The code was duplicated in
the past which made maintenance more work.  (Zoltan Arpadffy)

Updated the Borland C version 5 Makefile: (Dan Sharp)
- Fixed the Perl build
- Added python and tcl builds
- Added dynamic perl and dynamic python builds
- Added uninstal.exe build
- Use "yes" and "no" for the options, like in Make_mvc.mak.

Win32: Merged Make_gvc.mak and Make_ovc.mak into one file: Make_ivc.mak.  It's
much smaller, many unnecessary text has been removed. (Walter Briscoe)
Added Make_dvc.mak to be able to debug exe generated with Make_mvc.mak in
MS-Devstudio. (Walter Briscoe)

MS-Windows: The big gvim.exe, which includes OLE, now also includes
dynamically loaded Tcl, Perl and Python.  This uses ActivePerl 5.6.1,
ActivePython 2.1.1 and ActiveTCL 8.3.3

Added AC_EXEEXT to configure.in, to check if the executable needs ".exe" for
Cygwin or MingW.  Renamed SUFFIX to EXEEXT in Makefile.

Win32: Load comdlg32.dll delayed for faster startup.  Only when using VC 6.
(Vipin Aravind)

Win32: When compiling with Borland, allow using IME. (Yasuhiro Matsumoto)

Win32: Added Makefile for Borland 5 to compile gvimext.dll. (Yasuhiro
Matsumoto)

