AUDIT-PLUGINS:(8)                                                            System Administration Utilities                                                           AUDIT-PLUGINS:(8)

NAME
       audit-plugins - realtime event receivers

DESCRIPTION
       auditd  can  multiplex  audit events in realtime. It takes audit events and distributes them to child programs that want to analyze events in realtime. When the audit daemon re-
       ceives a SIGTERM or SIGHUP, it passes that signal to its child processes so that can reload the configuration or terminate.

       The child programs install a configuration file in a plugins directory which defaults to /etc/audit/plugins.d. This can be controlled by a auditd.conf config  option  plugin_dir
       if the admin wished to locate plugins somewhere else. But auditd will install its plugins in the default location.

       The  plugin directory will be scanned and every pluging that is active will be started. If the plugin has a problem and exits, it will be started a maximum of max_restarts times
       as found in auditd.conf.

       Config file names are not allowed to have more than one '.' in the name or it will be treated as a backup copy and skipped. Config file options are given one per  line  with  an
       equal sign between the keyword and its value. The available options are as follows:

       active The options for this are yes or no.

       direction
              The option is dictated by the plugin.  In or out are the only choices. You cannot make a plugin operate in a way it wasn't designed just by changing this option. This op-
              tion is to give a clue to the event dispatcher about which direction events flow. NOTE: inbound events are not supported yet.

       path   This is the absolute path to the plugin executable. In the case of internal plugins, it would be the name of the plugin.

       type   This tells the dispatcher how the plugin wants to be run. Choices are builtin and always.  Builtin should always be given for plugins that are internal to the audit event
              dispatcher. These are af_unix and syslog. The option always should be given for most if not all plugins. The default setting is always.

       args   This allows you to pass arguments to the child program. Generally plugins do not take arguments and have their own config file that instructs them how they should be con-
              figured. At the moment, there is a limit of 2 args.

       format The valid options for this are binary and string.  Binary passes the data exactly as the audit event dispatcher gets it from the audit daemon. The string option tells the
              dispatcher to completely change the event into a string suitable for parsing with the audit parsing library. The default value is string.

FILES
       /etc/auditd/auditd.conf /etc/audit/plugins.d

SEE ALSO
       auditd.conf(5), auditd(8).

AUTHOR
       Steve Grubb

Red Hat                                                                                 Aug 2018                                                                       AUDIT-PLUGINS:(8)
