*04.2*	Changing text

Another operator is "c", change.  It acts just like the "d" operator, except
it leaves you in Insert mode.  For example, "cw" changes a word.  Or more
specifically, it deletes a word and then puts you in Insert mode.

	To err is human ~
	   ------->
	     c2wbe<Esc>

	To be human ~

This "c2wbe<Esc>" contains these bits:

	c	the change operator
	2w	move two words (they are deleted and Insert mode started)
	be	insert this text
	<Esc>	back to Normal mode

You will have noticed something strange: The space before "human" isn't
deleted.  There is a saying that for every problem there is an answer that is
simple, clear, and wrong.  That is the case with the example used here for the
"cw" command.  The c operator works just like the d operator, with one
exception: "cw".  It actually works like "ce", change to end of word.  Thus
the space after the word isn't included.  This is an exception that dates back
to the old Vi.  Since many people are used to it now, the inconsistency has
remained in Vim.


MORE CHANGES

Like "dd" deletes a whole line, "cc" changes a whole line.  It keeps the
existing indent (leading white space) though.

Just like "d$" deletes until the end of the line, "c$" changes until the end
of the line.  It's like doing "d$" to delete the text and then "a" to start
Insert mode and append new text.


SHORTCUTS

Some operator-motion commands are used so often that they have been given a
single-letter command:

	x  stands for  dl  (delete character under the cursor)
	X  stands for  dh  (delete character left of the cursor)
	D  stands for  d$  (delete to end of the line)
	C  stands for  c$  (change to end of the line)
	s  stands for  cl  (change one character)
	S  stands for  cc  (change a whole line)


WHERE TO PUT THE COUNT

The commands "3dw" and "d3w" delete three words.  If you want to get really
picky about things, the first command, "3dw", deletes one word three times;
the command "d3w" deletes three words once.  This is a difference without a
distinction.  You can actually put in two counts, however.  For example,
"3d2w" deletes two words, repeated three times, for a total of six words.


REPLACING WITH ONE CHARACTER

The "r" command is not an operator.  It waits for you to type a character, and
will replace the character under the cursor with it.  You could do the same
with "cl" or with the "s" command, but with "r" you don't have to press <Esc>
to get back out of insert mode.

	there is somerhing grong here ~
	rT	     rt    rw

	There is something wrong here ~

Using a count with "r" causes that many characters to be replaced with the
same character.  Example:

	There is something wrong here ~
			   5rx

	There is something xxxxx here ~

To replace a character with a line break use "r<Enter>".  This deletes one
character and inserts a line break.  Using a count here only applies to the
number of characters deleted: "4r<Enter>" replaces four characters with one
line break.

