6.  Replies

   The SOCKS request information is sent by the client as soon as it has
   established a connection to the SOCKS server, and completed the
   authentication negotiations.  The server evaluates the request, and
   returns a reply formed as follows:

        +----+-----+-------+------+----------+----------+
        |VER | REP |  RSV  | ATYP | BND.ADDR | BND.PORT |
        +----+-----+-------+------+----------+----------+
        | 1  |  1  | X'00' |  1   | Variable |    2     |
        +----+-----+-------+------+----------+----------+

     Where:

          o  VER    protocol version: X'05'
          o  REP    Reply field:
             o  X'00' succeeded
             o  X'01' general SOCKS server failure
             o  X'02' connection not allowed by ruleset
             o  X'03' Network unreachable
             o  X'04' Host unreachable
             o  X'05' Connection refused
             o  X'06' TTL expired
             o  X'07' Command not supported
             o  X'08' Address type not supported
             o  X'09' to X'FF' unassigned
          o  RSV    RESERVED
          o  ATYP   address type of following address



Leech, et al                Standards Track                     [Page 5]

RFC 1928                SOCKS Protocol Version 5              March 1996


             o  IP V4 address: X'01'
             o  DOMAINNAME: X'03'
             o  IP V6 address: X'04'
          o  BND.ADDR       server bound address
          o  BND.PORT       server bound port in network octet order

   Fields marked RESERVED (RSV) must be set to X'00'.

   If the chosen method includes encapsulation for purposes of
   authentication, integrity and/or confidentiality, the replies are
   encapsulated in the method-dependent encapsulation.

CONNECT

   In the reply to a CONNECT, BND.PORT contains the port number that the
   server assigned to connect to the target host, while BND.ADDR
   contains the associated IP address.  The supplied BND.ADDR is often
   different from the IP address that the client uses to reach the SOCKS
   server, since such servers are often multi-homed.  It is expected
   that the SOCKS server will use DST.ADDR and DST.PORT, and the
   client-side source address and port in evaluating the CONNECT
   request.

BIND

   The BIND request is used in protocols which require the client to
   accept connections from the server.  FTP is a well-known example,
   which uses the primary client-to-server connection for commands and
   status reports, but may use a server-to-client connection for
   transferring data on demand (e.g. LS, GET, PUT).

   It is expected that the client side of an application protocol will
   use the BIND request only to establish secondary connections after a
   primary connection is established using CONNECT.  In is expected that
   a SOCKS server will use DST.ADDR and DST.PORT in evaluating the BIND
   request.

   Two replies are sent from the SOCKS server to the client during a
   BIND operation.  The first is sent after the server creates and binds
   a new socket.  The BND.PORT field contains the port number that the
   SOCKS server assigned to listen for an incoming connection.  The
   BND.ADDR field contains the associated IP address.  The client will
   typically use these pieces of information to notify (via the primary
   or control connection) the application server of the rendezvous
   address.  The second reply occurs only after the anticipated incoming
   connection succeeds or fails.





Leech, et al                Standards Track                     [Page 6]

RFC 1928                SOCKS Protocol Version 5              March 1996


   In the second reply, the BND.PORT and BND.ADDR fields contain the
   address and port number of the connecting host.

UDP ASSOCIATE

   The UDP ASSOCIATE request is used to establish an association within
   the UDP relay process to handle UDP datagrams.  The DST.ADDR and
   DST.PORT fields contain the address and port that the client expects
   to use to send UDP datagrams on for the association.  The server MAY
   use this information to limit access to the association.  If the
   client is not in possesion of the information at the time of the UDP
   ASSOCIATE, the client MUST use a port number and address of all
   zeros.

   A UDP association terminates when the TCP connection that the UDP
   ASSOCIATE request arrived on terminates.

   In the reply to a UDP ASSOCIATE request, the BND.PORT and BND.ADDR
   fields indicate the port number/address where the client MUST send
   UDP request messages to be relayed.

Reply Processing

   When a reply (REP value other than X'00') indicates a failure, the
   SOCKS server MUST terminate the TCP connection shortly after sending
   the reply.  This must be no more than 10 seconds after detecting the
   condition that caused a failure.

   If the reply code (REP value of X'00') indicates a success, and the
   request was either a BIND or a CONNECT, the client may now start
   passing data.  If the selected authentication method supports
   encapsulation for the purposes of integrity, authentication and/or
   confidentiality, the data are encapsulated using the method-dependent
   encapsulation.  Similarly, when data arrives at the SOCKS server for
   the client, the server MUST encapsulate the data as appropriate for
   the authentication method in use.

