3.2 Interactive Use
===================


Interaction with the shell uses the builtin Zsh Line Editor, ZLE. This
is described in detail in *note Zsh Line Editor::.

The first decision a user must make is whether to use the Emacs or Vi
editing mode as the keys for editing are substantially different.  Emacs
editing mode is probably more natural for beginners and can be selected
explicitly with the command bindkey -e.

A history mechanism for retrieving previously typed lines (most simply
with the Up or Down arrow keys) is available; note that, unlike other
shells, zsh will not save these lines when the shell exits unless you
set appropriate variables, and the number of history lines retained by
default is quite small (30 lines).  See the description of the shell
variables (referred to in the documentation as parameters) HISTFILE,
HISTSIZE and SAVEHIST in *note Parameters Used By The Shell::.  Note
that it's currently only possible to read and write files saving history
when the shell is interactive, i.e.  it does not work from scripts.

The shell now supports the UTF-8 character set (and also others if
supported by the operating system).  This is (mostly) handled
transparently by the shell, but the degree of support in terminal
emulators is variable.  There is some discussion of this in the shell
FAQ, <http://www.zsh.org/FAQ/>.  Note in particular that for combining
characters to be handled the option COMBINING_CHARS needs to be set.
Because the shell is now more sensitive to the definition of the
character set, note that if you are upgrading from an older version of
the shell you should ensure that the appropriate variable, either LANG
(to affect all aspects of the shell's operation) or LC_CTYPE (to affect
only the handling of character sets) is set to an appropriate value.
This is true even if you are using a single-byte character set including
extensions of ASCII such as ISO-8859-1 or ISO-8859-15.  See the
description of LC_CTYPE in *note Parameters::.


3.2.1 Completion
----------------


Completion is a feature present in many shells.  It allows the user to
type only a part (usually the prefix) of a word and have the shell fill
in the rest.  The completion system in zsh is programmable.  For
example, the shell can be set to complete email addresses in arguments
to the mail command from your ~/.abook/addressbook; usernames,
hostnames, and even remote paths in arguments to scp, and so on.
Anything that can be written in or glued together with zsh can be the
source of what the line editor offers as possible completions.

Zsh has two completion systems, an old, so called compctl completion
(named after the builtin command that serves as its complete and only
user interface), and a new one, referred to as compsys, organized as
library of builtin and user-defined functions.  The two systems differ
in their interface for specifying the completion behavior.  The new
system is more customizable and is supplied with completions for many
commonly used commands; it is therefore to be preferred.

The completion system must be enabled explicitly when the shell starts.
For more information see *note Completion System::.


3.2.2 Extending the line editor
-------------------------------


Apart from completion, the line editor is highly extensible by means of
shell functions.  Some useful functions are provided with the shell;
they provide facilities such as:

insert-composed-char
     composing characters not found on the keyboard

match-words-by-style
     configuring what the line editor considers a word when moving or
     deleting by word

history-beginning-search-backward-end, etc.
     alternative ways of searching the shell history

replace-string, replace-pattern
     functions for replacing strings or patterns globally in the command
     line

edit-command-line
     edit the command line with an external editor.

See *note ZLE Functions:: for descriptions of these.


