9.3 Special Functions
=====================

Certain functions, if defined, have special meaning to the shell.


9.3.1 Hook Functions
--------------------


For the functions below, it is possible to define an array that has the
same name as the function with '_functions' appended.  Any element in
such an array is taken as the name of a function to execute; it is
executed in the same context and with the same arguments as the basic
function.  For example, if $chpwd_functions is an array containing the
values 'mychpwd', 'chpwd_save_dirstack', then the shell attempts to
execute the functions 'chpwd', 'mychpwd' and 'chpwd_save_dirstack', in
that order.  Any function that does not exist is silently ignored.  A
function found by this mechanism is referred to elsewhere as a 'hook
function'.  An error in any function causes subsequent functions not to
be run.  Note further that an error in a precmd hook causes an
immediately following periodic function not to run (though it may run at
the next opportunity).

chpwd
     Executed whenever the current working directory is changed.

periodic
     If the parameter PERIOD is set, this function is executed every
     $PERIOD seconds, just before a prompt.  Note that if multiple
     functions are defined using the array periodic_functions only one
     period is applied to the complete set of functions, and the
     scheduled time is not reset if the list of functions is altered.
     Hence the set of functions is always called together.

precmd
     Executed before each prompt.  Note that precommand functions are
     not re-executed simply because the command line is redrawn, as
     happens, for example, when a notification about an exiting job is
     displayed.

preexec
     Executed just after a command has been read and is about to be
     executed.  If the history mechanism is active (regardless of
     whether the line was discarded from the history buffer), the string
     that the user typed is passed as the first argument, otherwise it
     is an empty string.  The actual command that will be executed
     (including expanded aliases) is passed in two different forms: the
     second argument is a single-line, size-limited version of the
     command (with things like function bodies elided); the third
     argument contains the full text that is being executed.

zshaddhistory
     Executed when a history line has been read interactively, but
     before it is executed.  The sole argument is the complete history
     line (so that any terminating newline will still be present).

     If any of the hook functions returns status 1 (or any non-zero
     value other than 2, though this is not guaranteed for future
     versions of the shell) the history line will not be saved, although
     it lingers in the history until the next line is executed, allowing
     you to reuse or edit it immediately.

     If any of the hook functions returns status 2 the history line will
     be saved on the internal history list, but not written to the
     history file.  In case of a conflict, the first non-zero status
     value is taken.

     A hook function may call 'fc -p ...' to switch the history context
     so that the history is saved in a different file from the that in
     the global HISTFILE parameter.  This is handled specially: the
     history context is automatically restored after the processing of
     the history line is finished.

     The following example function works with one of the options
     INC_APPEND_HISTORY or SHARE_HISTORY set, in order that the line is
     written out immediately after the history entry is added.  It first
     adds the history line to the normal history with the newline
     stripped, which is usually the correct behaviour.  Then it switches
     the history context so that the line will be written to a history
     file in the current directory.

          zshaddhistory() {
            print -sr -- ${1%%$'\n'}
            fc -p .zsh_local_history
          }

zshexit
     Executed at the point where the main shell is about to exit
     normally.  This is not called by exiting subshells, nor when the
     exec precommand modifier is used before an external command.  Also,
     unlike TRAPEXIT, it is not called when functions exit.


9.3.2 Trap Functions
--------------------


The functions below are treated specially but do not have corresponding
hook arrays.

TRAPNAL
     If defined and non-null, this function will be executed whenever
     the shell catches a signal SIGNAL, where NAL is a signal name as
     specified for the kill builtin.  The signal number will be passed
     as the first parameter to the function.

     If a function of this form is defined and null, the shell and
     processes spawned by it will ignore SIGNAL.

     The return status from the function is handled specially.  If it is
     zero, the signal is assumed to have been handled, and execution
     continues normally.  Otherwise, the shell will behave as
     interrupted except that the return status of the trap is retained.

     Programs terminated by uncaught signals typically return the status
     128 plus the signal number.  Hence the following causes the handler
     for SIGINT to print a message, then mimic the usual effect of the
     signal.

          TRAPINT() {
            print "Caught SIGINT, aborting."
            return $(( 128 + $1 ))
          }

     The functions TRAPZERR, TRAPDEBUG and TRAPEXIT are never executed
     inside other traps.

TRAPDEBUG
     If the option DEBUG_BEFORE_CMD is set (as it is by default),
     executed before each command; otherwise executed after each
     command.  See the description of the trap builtin in *note Shell
     Builtin Commands:: for details of additional features provided in
     debug traps.

TRAPEXIT
     Executed when the shell exits, or when the current function exits
     if defined inside a function.  The value of $? at the start of
     execution is the exit status of the shell or the return status of
     the function exiting.

TRAPZERR
     Executed whenever a command has a non-zero exit status.  However,
     the function is not executed if the command occurred in a sublist
     followed by '&&' or '||'; only the final command in a sublist of
     this type causes the trap to be executed.  The function TRAPERR
     acts the same as TRAPZERR on systems where there is no SIGERR (this
     is the usual case).

The functions beginning 'TRAP' may alternatively be defined with the
trap builtin: this may be preferable for some uses.  Setting a trap with
one form removes any trap of the other form for the same signal;
removing a trap in either form removes all traps for the same signal.
The forms

     TRAPNAL() {
      # code
     }

('function traps') and

     trap '
      # code
     ' NAL

('list traps') are equivalent in most ways, the exceptions being the
following:


   * Function traps have all the properties of normal functions,
     appearing in the list of functions and being called with their own
     function context rather than the context where the trap was
     triggered.
   * The return status from function traps is special, whereas a return
     from a list trap causes the surrounding context to return with the
     given status.
   * Function traps are not reset within subshells, in accordance with
     zsh behaviour; list traps are reset, in accordance with POSIX
     behaviour.

File: zsh.info,  Node: Jobs & Signals,  Next: Arithmetic Evaluation,  Prev: Functions,  Up: Top

