18.2 Keymaps
============

A keymap in ZLE contains a set of bindings between key sequences and ZLE
commands.  The empty key sequence cannot be bound.

There can be any number of keymaps at any time, and each keymap has one
or more names.  If all of a keymap's names are deleted, it disappears.
bindkey can be used to manipulate keymap names.

Initially, there are eight keymaps:

emacs
     EMACS emulation
viins
     vi emulation - insert mode
vicmd
     vi emulation - command mode
viopp
     vi emulation - operator pending
visual
     vi emulation - selection active
isearch
     incremental search mode
command
     read a command name
.safe
     fallback keymap

The '.safe' keymap is special.  It can never be altered, and the name
can never be removed.  However, it can be linked to other names, which
can be removed.  In the future other special keymaps may be added; users
should avoid using names beginning with '.' for their own keymaps.

In addition to these names, either 'emacs' or 'viins' is also linked to
the name 'main'.  If one of the VISUAL or EDITOR environment variables
contain the string 'vi' when the shell starts up then it will be
'viins', otherwise it will be 'emacs'.  bindkey's -e and -v options
provide a convenient way to override this default choice.

When the editor starts up, it will select the 'main' keymap.  If that
keymap doesn't exist, it will use '.safe' instead.

In the '.safe' keymap, each single key is bound to self-insert, except
for ^J (line feed) and ^M (return) which are bound to accept-line.  This
is deliberately not pleasant to use; if you are using it, it means you
deleted the main keymap, and you should put it back.

18.2.1 Reading Commands
-----------------------

When ZLE is reading a command from the terminal, it may read a sequence
that is bound to some command and is also a prefix of a longer bound
string.  In this case ZLE will wait a certain time to see if more
characters are typed, and if not (or they don't match any longer string)
it will execute the binding.  This timeout is defined by the KEYTIMEOUT
parameter; its default is 0.4 sec.  There is no timeout if the prefix
string is not itself bound to a command.

The key timeout is also applied when ZLE is reading the bytes from a
multibyte character string when it is in the appropriate mode.  (This
requires that the shell was compiled with multibyte mode enabled;
typically also the locale has characters with the UTF-8 encoding,
although any multibyte encoding known to the operating system is
supported.)  If the second or a subsequent byte is not read within the
timeout period, the shell acts as if ? were typed and resets the input
state.

As well as ZLE commands, key sequences can be bound to other strings, by
using 'bindkey -s'.  When such a sequence is read, the replacement
string is pushed back as input, and the command reading process starts
again using these fake keystrokes.  This input can itself invoke further
replacement strings, but in order to detect loops the process will be
stopped if there are twenty such replacements without a real command
being read.

A key sequence typed by the user can be turned into a command name for
use in user-defined widgets with the read-command widget, described in
*note Miscellaneous:: below.

18.2.2 Local Keymaps
--------------------

While for normal editing a single keymap is used exclusively, in many
modes a local keymap allows for some keys to be customised.  For
example, in an incremental search mode, a binding in the isearch keymap
will override a binding in the main keymap but all keys that are not
overridden can still be used.

If a key sequence is defined in a local keymap, it will hide a key
sequence in the global keymap that is a prefix of that sequence.  An
example of this occurs with the binding of iw in viopp as this hides the
binding of i in vicmd.  However, a longer sequence in the global keymap
that shares the same prefix can still apply so for example the binding
of ^Xa in the global keymap will be unaffected by the binding of ^Xb in
the local keymap.


File: zsh.info,  Node: Zle Builtins,  Next: Zle Widgets,  Prev: Keymaps,  Up: Zsh Line Editor

