18.3 Zle Builtins
=================

The ZLE module contains three related builtin commands.  The bindkey
command manipulates keymaps and key bindings; the vared command invokes
ZLE on the value of a shell parameter; and the zle command manipulates
editing widgets and allows command line access to ZLE commands from
within shell functions.

bindkey [ OPTIONS ] -l [ -L ] [ KEYMAP ... ]
bindkey [ OPTIONS ] -d
bindkey [ OPTIONS ] -D KEYMAP ...
bindkey [ OPTIONS ] -A OLD-KEYMAP NEW-KEYMAP
bindkey [ OPTIONS ] -N NEW-KEYMAP [ OLD-KEYMAP ]
bindkey [ OPTIONS ] -m
bindkey [ OPTIONS ] -r IN-STRING ...
bindkey [ OPTIONS ] -s IN-STRING OUT-STRING ...
bindkey [ OPTIONS ] IN-STRING COMMAND ...
bindkey [ OPTIONS ] [ IN-STRING ]
     bindkey's options can be divided into three categories: keymap
     selection for the current command, operation selection, and others.
     The keymap selection options are:

     -e
          Selects keymap 'emacs' for any operations by the current
          command, and also links 'emacs' to 'main' so that it is
          selected by default the next time the editor starts.

     -v
          Selects keymap 'viins' for any operations by the current
          command, and also links 'viins' to 'main' so that it is
          selected by default the next time the editor starts.

     -a
          Selects keymap 'vicmd' for any operations by the current
          command.

     -M KEYMAP
          The KEYMAP specifies a keymap name that is selected for any
          operations by the current command.

     If a keymap selection is required and none of the options above are
     used, the 'main' keymap is used.  Some operations do not permit a
     keymap to be selected, namely:

     -l
          List all existing keymap names; if any arguments are given,
          list just those keymaps.

          If the -L option is also used, list in the form of bindkey
          commands to create or link the keymaps.  'bindkey -lL main'
          shows which keymap is linked to 'main', if any, and hence if
          the standard emacs or vi emulation is in effect.  This option
          does not show the .safe keymap because it cannot be created in
          that fashion; however, neither is 'bindkey -lL .safe' reported
          as an error, it simply outputs nothing.

     -d
          Delete all existing keymaps and reset to the default state.

     -D KEYMAP ...
          Delete the named KEYMAPs.

     -A OLD-KEYMAP NEW-KEYMAP
          Make the NEW-KEYMAP name an alias for OLD-KEYMAP, so that both
          names refer to the same keymap.  The names have equal
          standing; if either is deleted, the other remains.  If there
          is already a keymap with the NEW-KEYMAP name, it is deleted.

     -N NEW-KEYMAP [ OLD-KEYMAP ]
          Create a new keymap, named NEW-KEYMAP.  If a keymap already
          has that name, it is deleted.  If an OLD-KEYMAP name is given,
          the new keymap is initialized to be a duplicate of it,
          otherwise the new keymap will be empty.

     To use a newly created keymap, it should be linked to main.  Hence
     the sequence of commands to create and use a new keymap 'mymap'
     initialized from the emacs keymap (which remains unchanged) is:

          bindkey -N mymap emacs
          bindkey -A mymap main

     Note that while 'bindkey -A NEWMAP main' will work when NEWMAP is
     emacs or viins, it will not work for vicmd, as switching from vi
     insert to command mode becomes impossible.

     The following operations act on the 'main' keymap if no keymap
     selection option was given:

     -m
          Add the built-in set of meta-key bindings to the selected
          keymap.  Only keys that are unbound or bound to self-insert
          are affected.

     -r IN-STRING ...
          Unbind the specified IN-STRINGs in the selected keymap.  This
          is exactly equivalent to binding the strings to undefined-key.

          When -R is also used, interpret the IN-STRINGs as ranges.

          When -p is also used, the IN-STRINGs specify prefixes.  Any
          binding that has the given IN-STRING as a prefix, not
          including the binding for the IN-STRING itself, if any, will
          be removed.  For example,

               bindkey -rpM viins '^['

          will remove all bindings in the vi-insert keymap beginning
          with an escape character (probably cursor keys), but leave the
          binding for the escape character itself (probably
          vi-cmd-mode).  This is incompatible with the option -R.

     -s IN-STRING OUT-STRING ...
          Bind each IN-STRING to each OUT-STRING.  When IN-STRING is
          typed, OUT-STRING will be pushed back and treated as input to
          the line editor.  When -R is also used, interpret the
          IN-STRINGs as ranges.

          Note that both IN-STRING and OUT-STRING are subject to the
          same form of interpretation, as described below.

     IN-STRING COMMAND ...
          Bind each IN-STRING to each COMMAND.  When -R is used,
          interpret the IN-STRINGs as ranges.

     [ IN-STRING ]
          List key bindings.  If an IN-STRING is specified, the binding
          of that string in the selected keymap is displayed.
          Otherwise, all key bindings in the selected keymap are
          displayed.  (As a special case, if the -e or -v option is used
          alone, the keymap is _not_ displayed - the implicit linking of
          keymaps is the only thing that happens.)

          When the option -p is used, the IN-STRING must be present.
          The listing shows all bindings which have the given key
          sequence as a prefix, not including any bindings for the key
          sequence itself.

          When the -L option is used, the list is in the form of bindkey
          commands to create the key bindings.

     When the -R option is used as noted above, a valid range consists
     of two characters, with an optional '-' between them.  All
     characters between the two specified, inclusive, are bound as
     specified.

     For either IN-STRING or OUT-STRING, the following escape sequences
     are recognised:

     \a
          bell character
     \b
          backspace
     \e, \E
          escape
     \f
          form feed
     \n
          linefeed (newline)
     \r
          carriage return
     \t
          horizontal tab
     \v
          vertical tab
     \NNN
          character code in octal
     \xNN
          character code in hexadecimal
     \uNNNN
          unicode character code in hexadecimal
     \UNNNNNNNN
          unicode character code in hexadecimal
     \M[-]X
          character with meta bit set
     \C[-]X
          control character
     ^X
          control character

     In all other cases, '\' escapes the following character.  Delete is
     written as '^?'.  Note that '\M^?' and '^\M?' are not the same, and
     that (unlike emacs), the bindings '\M-X' and '\eX' are entirely
     distinct, although they are initialized to the same bindings by
     'bindkey -m'.

vared [ -Aacghe ] [ -p PROMPT ] [ -r RPROMPT ]
      [ -M MAIN-KEYMAP ] [ -m VICMD-KEYMAP ]
      [ -i INIT-WIDGET ] [ -f FINISH-WIDGET ]
      [ -t TTY ] NAME
     The value of the parameter NAME is loaded into the edit buffer, and
     the line editor is invoked.  When the editor exits, NAME is set to
     the string value returned by the editor.  When the -c flag is
     given, the parameter is created if it doesn't already exist.  The
     -a flag may be given with -c to create an array parameter, or the
     -A flag to create an associative array.  If the type of an existing
     parameter does not match the type to be created, the parameter is
     unset and recreated.  The -g flag may be given to suppress warnings
     from the WARN_CREATE_GLOBAL and WARN_NESTED_VAR options.

     If an array or array slice is being edited, separator characters as
     defined in $IFS will be shown quoted with a backslash, as will
     backslashes themselves.  Conversely, when the edited text is split
     into an array, a backslash quotes an immediately following
     separator character or backslash; no other special handling of
     backslashes, or any handling of quotes, is performed.

     Individual elements of existing array or associative array
     parameters may be edited by using subscript syntax on NAME.  New
     elements are created automatically, even without -c.

     If the -p flag is given, the following string will be taken as the
     prompt to display at the left.  If the -r flag is given, the
     following string gives the prompt to display at the right.  If the
     -h flag is specified, the history can be accessed from ZLE. If the
     -e flag is given, typing ^D (Control-D) on an empty line causes
     vared to exit immediately with a non-zero return value.

     The -M option gives a keymap to link to the main keymap during
     editing, and the -m option gives a keymap to link to the vicmd
     keymap during editing.  For vi-style editing, this allows a pair of
     keymaps to override viins and vicmd.  For emacs-style editing, only
     -M is normally needed but the -m option may still be used.  On
     exit, the previous keymaps will be restored.

     Vared calls the usual 'zle-line-init' and 'zle-line-finish' hooks
     before and after it takes control.  Using the -i and -f options, it
     is possible to replace these with other custom widgets.

     If '-t TTY' is given, TTY is the name of a terminal device to be
     used instead of the default /dev/tty.  If TTY does not refer to a
     terminal an error is reported.

zle
zle -l [ -L | -a ] [ STRING ... ]
zle -D WIDGET ...
zle -A OLD-WIDGET NEW-WIDGET
zle -N WIDGET [ FUNCTION ]
zle -f FLAG [ FLAG... ]
zle -C WIDGET COMPLETION-WIDGET FUNCTION
zle -R [ -c ] [ DISPLAY-STRING ] [ STRING ... ]
zle -M STRING
zle -U STRING
zle -K KEYMAP
zle -F [ -L | -w ] [ FD [ HANDLER ] ]
zle -I
zle -T [ tc FUNCTION | -r tc | -L ]
zle WIDGET [ -n NUM ] [ -Nw ] [ -K KEYMAP ] ARGS ...
     The zle builtin performs a number of different actions concerning
     ZLE.

     With no options and no arguments, only the return status will be
     set.  It is zero if ZLE is currently active and widgets could be
     invoked using this builtin command and non-zero otherwise.  Note
     that even if non-zero status is returned, zle may still be active
     as part of the completion system; this does not allow direct calls
     to ZLE widgets.

     Otherwise, which operation it performs depends on its options:

     -l [ -L | -a ] [ STRING ]
          List all existing user-defined widgets.  If the -L option is
          used, list in the form of zle commands to create the widgets.

          When combined with the -a option, all widget names are listed,
          including the builtin ones.  In this case the -L option is
          ignored.

          If at least one STRING is given, and -a is present or -L is
          not used, nothing will be printed.  The return status will be
          zero if all STRINGs are names of existing widgets and non-zero
          if at least one STRING is not a name of a defined widget.  If
          -a is also present, all widget names are used for the
          comparison including builtin widgets, else only user-defined
          widgets are used.

          If at least one STRING is present and the -L option is used,
          user-defined widgets matching any STRING are listed in the
          form of zle commands to create the widgets.

     -D WIDGET ...
          Delete the named WIDGETs.

     -A OLD-WIDGET NEW-WIDGET
          Make the NEW-WIDGET name an alias for OLD-WIDGET, so that both
          names refer to the same widget.  The names have equal
          standing; if either is deleted, the other remains.  If there
          is already a widget with the NEW-WIDGET name, it is deleted.

     -N WIDGET [ FUNCTION ]
          Create a user-defined widget.  If there is already a widget
          with the specified name, it is overwritten.  When the new
          widget is invoked from within the editor, the specified shell
          FUNCTION is called.  If no function name is specified, it
          defaults to the same name as the widget.  For further
          information, see *note Zle Widgets::.

     -f FLAG [ FLAG... ]
          Set various flags on the running widget.  Possible values for
          FLAG are:

          yank for indicating that the widget has yanked text into the
          buffer.  If the widget is wrapping an existing internal
          widget, no further action is necessary, but if it has inserted
          the text manually, then it should also take care to set
          YANK_START and YANK_END correctly.  yankbefore does the same
          but is used when the yanked text appears after the cursor.

          kill for indicating that text has been killed into the
          cutbuffer.  When repeatedly invoking a kill widget, text is
          appended to the cutbuffer instead of replacing it, but when
          wrapping such widgets, it is necessary to call 'zle -f kill'
          to retain this effect.

          vichange for indicating that the widget represents a vi change
          that can be repeated as a whole with 'vi-repeat-change'.  The
          flag should be set early in the function before inspecting the
          value of NUMERIC or invoking other widgets.  This has no
          effect for a widget invoked from insert mode.  If insert mode
          is active when the widget finishes, the change extends until
          next returning to command mode.

     -C WIDGET COMPLETION-WIDGET FUNCTION
          Create a user-defined completion widget named WIDGET.  The
          completion widget will behave like the built-in
          completion-widget whose name is given as COMPLETION-WIDGET.
          To generate the completions, the shell function FUNCTION will
          be called.  For further information, see *note Completion
          Widgets::.

     -R [ -c ] [ DISPLAY-STRING ] [ STRING ... ]
          Redisplay the command line; this is to be called from within a
          user-defined widget to allow changes to become visible.  If a
          DISPLAY-STRING is given and not empty, this is shown in the
          status line (immediately below the line being edited).

          If the optional STRINGs are given they are listed below the
          prompt in the same way as completion lists are printed.  If no
          STRINGs are given but the -c option is used such a list is
          cleared.

          Note that this option is only useful for widgets that do not
          exit immediately after using it because the strings displayed
          will be erased immediately after return from the widget.

          This command can safely be called outside user defined
          widgets; if zle is active, the display will be refreshed,
          while if zle is not active, the command has no effect.  In
          this case there will usually be no other arguments.

          The status is zero if zle was active, else one.

     -M STRING
          As with the -R option, the STRING will be displayed below the
          command line; unlike the -R option, the string will not be put
          into the status line but will instead be printed normally
          below the prompt.  This means that the STRING will still be
          displayed after the widget returns (until it is overwritten by
          subsequent commands).

     -U STRING
          This pushes the characters in the STRING onto the input stack
          of ZLE. After the widget currently executed finishes ZLE will
          behave as if the characters in the STRING were typed by the
          user.

          As ZLE uses a stack, if this option is used repeatedly the
          last string pushed onto the stack will be processed first.
          However, the characters in each STRING will be processed in
          the order in which they appear in the string.

     -K KEYMAP
          Selects the keymap named KEYMAP.  An error message will be
          displayed if there is no such keymap.

          This keymap selection affects the interpretation of following
          keystrokes within this invocation of ZLE. Any following
          invocation (e.g., the next command line) will start as usual
          with the 'main' keymap selected.

     -F [ -L | -w ] [ FD [ HANDLER ] ]
          Only available if your system supports one of the 'poll' or
          'select' system calls; most modern systems do.

          Installs HANDLER (the name of a shell function) to handle
          input from file descriptor FD.  Installing a handler for an FD
          which is already handled causes the existing handler to be
          replaced.  Any number of handlers for any number of readable
          file descriptors may be installed.  Note that zle makes no
          attempt to check whether this FD is actually readable when
          installing the handler.  The user must make their own
          arrangements for handling the file descriptor when zle is not
          active.

          When zle is attempting to read data, it will examine both the
          terminal and the list of handled FD's.  If data becomes
          available on a handled FD, zle calls HANDLER with the fd which
          is ready for reading as the first argument.  Under normal
          circumstances this is the only argument, but if an error was
          detected, a second argument provides details: 'hup' for a
          disconnect, 'nval' for a closed or otherwise invalid
          descriptor, or 'err' for any other condition.  Systems that
          support only the 'select' system call always use 'err'.

          If the option -w is also given, the HANDLER is instead a line
          editor widget, typically a shell function made into a widget
          using 'zle -N'.  In that case HANDLER can use all the
          facilities of zle to update the current editing line.  Note,
          however, that as handling FD takes place at a low level
          changes to the display will not automatically appear; the
          widget should call 'zle -R' to force redisplay.  As of this
          writing, widget handlers only support a single argument and
          thus are never passed a string for error state, so widgets
          must be prepared to test the descriptor themselves.

          If either type of handler produces output to the terminal, it
          should call 'zle -I' before doing so (see below).  Handlers
          should not attempt to read from the terminal.

          If no HANDLER is given, but an FD is present, any handler for
          that FD is removed.  If there is none, an error message is
          printed and status 1 is returned.

          If no arguments are given, or the -L option is supplied, a
          list of handlers is printed in a form which can be stored for
          later execution.

          An FD (but not a HANDLER) may optionally be given with the -L
          option; in this case, the function will list the handler if
          any, else silently return status 1.

          Note that this feature should be used with care.  Activity on
          one of the FD's which is not properly handled can cause the
          terminal to become unusable.  Removing an FD handler from
          within a signal trap may cause unpredictable behavior.

          Here is a simple example of using this feature.  A connection
          to a remote TCP port is created using the ztcp command; see
          *note The zsh/net/tcp Module::.  Then a handler is installed
          which simply prints out any data which arrives on this
          connection.  Note that 'select' will indicate that the file
          descriptor needs handling if the remote side has closed the
          connection; we handle that by testing for a failed read.

               if ztcp pwspc 2811; then
                 tcpfd=$REPLY
                 handler() {
                   zle -I
                   local line
                   if ! read -r line <&$1; then
                     # select marks this fd if we reach EOF,
                     # so handle this specially.
                     print "[Read on fd $1 failed, removing.]" >&2
                     zle -F $1
                     return 1
                   fi
                   print -r - $line
                 }
                 zle -F $tcpfd handler
               fi

     -I
          Unusually, this option is most useful outside ordinary widget
          functions, though it may be used within if normal output to
          the terminal is required.  It invalidates the current zle
          display in preparation for output; typically this will be from
          a trap function.  It has no effect if zle is not active.  When
          a trap exits, the shell checks to see if the display needs
          restoring, hence the following will print output in such a way
          as not to disturb the line being edited:

               TRAPUSR1() {
                 # Invalidate zle display
                 [[ -o zle ]] && zle -I
                 # Show output
                 print Hello
               }

          In general, the trap function may need to test whether zle is
          active before using this method (as shown in the example),
          since the zsh/zle module may not even be loaded; if it is not,
          the command can be skipped.

          It is possible to call 'zle -I' several times before control
          is returned to the editor; the display will only be
          invalidated the first time to minimise disruption.

          Note that there are normally better ways of manipulating the
          display from within zle widgets; see, for example, 'zle -R'
          above.

          The returned status is zero if zle was invalidated, even
          though this may have been by a previous call to 'zle -I' or by
          a system notification.  To test if a zle widget may be called
          at this point, execute zle with no arguments and examine the
          return status.

     -T
          This is used to add, list or remove internal transformations
          on the processing performed by the line editor.  It is
          typically used only for debugging or testing and is therefore
          of little interest to the general user.

          'zle -T TRANSFORMATION FUNC' specifies that the given
          TRANSFORMATION (see below) is effected by shell function FUNC.

          'zle -Tr TRANSFORMATION' removes the given TRANSFORMATION if
          it was present (it is not an error if none was).

          'zle -TL' can be used to list all transformations currently in
          operation.

          Currently the only transformation is tc.  This is used instead
          of outputting termcap codes to the terminal.  When the
          transformation is in operation the shell function is passed
          the termcap code that would be output as its first argument;
          if the operation required a numeric argument, that is passed
          as a second argument.  The function should set the shell
          variable REPLY to the transformed termcap code.  Typically
          this is used to produce some simply formatted version of the
          code and optional argument for debugging or testing.  Note
          that this transformation is not applied to other non-printing
          characters such as carriage returns and newlines.

     WIDGET [ -n NUM ] [ -Nw ] [ -K KEYMAP ] ARGS ...
          Invoke the specified WIDGET.  This can only be done when ZLE
          is active; normally this will be within a user-defined widget.

          With the options -n and -N, the current numeric argument will
          be saved and then restored after the call to WIDGET; '-n NUM'
          sets the numeric argument temporarily to NUM, while '-N' sets
          it to the default, i.e.  as if there were none.

          With the option -K, KEYMAP will be used as the current keymap
          during the execution of the widget.  The previous keymap will
          be restored when the widget exits.

          Normally, calling a widget in this way does not set the
          special parameter WIDGET and related parameters, so that the
          environment appears as if the top-level widget called by the
          user were still active.  With the option -w, WIDGET and
          related parameters are set to reflect the widget being
          executed by the zle call.

          Any further arguments will be passed to the widget; note that
          as standard argument handling is performed, any general
          argument list should be preceded by --.  If it is a shell
          function, these are passed down as positional parameters; for
          builtin widgets it is up to the widget in question what it
          does with them.  Currently arguments are only handled by the
          incremental-search commands, the history-search-forward and
          -backward and the corresponding functions prefixed by vi-, and
          by universal-argument.  No error is flagged if the command
          does not use the arguments, or only uses some of them.

          The return status reflects the success or failure of the
          operation carried out by the widget, or if it is a
          user-defined widget the return status of the shell function.

          A non-zero return status causes the shell to beep when the
          widget exits, unless the BEEP options was unset or the widget
          was called via the zle command.  Thus if a user defined widget
          requires an immediate beep, it should call the beep widget
          directly.


File: zsh.info,  Node: Zle Widgets,  Next: Character Highlighting,  Prev: Zle Builtins,  Up: Zsh Line Editor

