18.5 User-Defined Widgets
=========================

User-defined widgets, being implemented as shell functions, can execute
any normal shell command.  They can also run other widgets (whether
built-in or user-defined) using the zle builtin command.  The standard
input of the function is redirected from /dev/null to prevent external
commands from unintentionally blocking ZLE by reading from the terminal,
but read -k or read -q can be used to read characters.  Finally, they
can examine and edit the ZLE buffer being edited by reading and setting
the special parameters described below.

These special parameters are always available in widget functions, but
are not in any way special outside ZLE. If they have some normal value
outside ZLE, that value is temporarily inaccessible, but will return
when the widget function exits.  These special parameters in fact have
local scope, like parameters created in a function using local.

Inside completion widgets and traps called while ZLE is active, these
parameters are available read-only.

Note that the parameters appear as local to any ZLE widget in which they
appear.  Hence if it is desired to override them this needs to be done
within a nested function:

     widget-function() {
       # $WIDGET here refers to the special variable
       # that is local inside widget-function
       () {
          # This anonymous nested function allows WIDGET
          # to be used as a local variable.  The -h
          # removes the special status of the variable.
          local -h WIDGET
       }
     }

BUFFER (scalar)
     The entire contents of the edit buffer.  If it is written to, the
     cursor remains at the same offset, unless that would put it outside
     the buffer.

BUFFERLINES (integer)
     The number of screen lines needed for the edit buffer currently
     displayed on screen (i.e.  without any changes to the preceding
     parameters done after the last redisplay); read-only.

CONTEXT (scalar)
     The context in which zle was called to read a line; read-only.  One
     of the values:

     start
          The start of a command line (at prompt PS1).

     cont
          A continuation to a command line (at prompt PS2).

     select
          In a select loop (at prompt PS3).

     vared
          Editing a variable in vared.

CURSOR (integer)
     The offset of the cursor, within the edit buffer.  This is in the
     range 0 to $#BUFFER, and is by definition equal to $#LBUFFER.
     Attempts to move the cursor outside the buffer will result in the
     cursor being moved to the appropriate end of the buffer.

CUTBUFFER (scalar)
     The last item cut using one of the 'kill-' commands; the string
     which the next yank would insert in the line.  Later entries in the
     kill ring are in the array killring.  Note that the command 'zle
     copy-region-as-kill STRING' can be used to set the text of the cut
     buffer from a shell function and cycle the kill ring in the same
     way as interactively killing text.

HISTNO (integer)
     The current history number.  Setting this has the same effect as
     moving up or down in the history to the corresponding history line.
     An attempt to set it is ignored if the line is not stored in the
     history.  Note this is not the same as the parameter HISTCMD, which
     always gives the number of the history line being added to the main
     shell's history.  HISTNO refers to the line being retrieved within
     zle.

ISEARCHMATCH_ACTIVE (integer)
ISEARCHMATCH_START (integer)
ISEARCHMATCH_END (integer)
     ISEARCHMATCH_ACTIVE indicates whether a part of the BUFFER is
     currently matched by an incremental search pattern.
     ISEARCHMATCH_START and ISEARCHMATCH_END give the location of the
     matched part and are in the same units as CURSOR.  They are only
     valid for reading when ISEARCHMATCH_ACTIVE is non-zero.

     All parameters are read-only.

KEYMAP (scalar)
     The name of the currently selected keymap; read-only.

KEYS (scalar)
     The keys typed to invoke this widget, as a literal string;
     read-only.

KEYS_QUEUED_COUNT (integer)
     The number of bytes pushed back to the input queue and therefore
     available for reading immediately before any I/O is done;
     read-only.  See also PENDING; the two values are distinct.

killring (array)
     The array of previously killed items, with the most recently killed
     first.  This gives the items that would be retrieved by a yank-pop
     in the same order.  Note, however, that the most recently killed
     item is in $CUTBUFFER; $killring shows the array of previous
     entries.

     The default size for the kill ring is eight, however the length may
     be changed by normal array operations.  Any empty string in the
     kill ring is ignored by the yank-pop command, hence the size of the
     array effectively sets the maximum length of the kill ring, while
     the number of non-zero strings gives the current length, both as
     seen by the user at the command line.

LASTABORTEDSEARCH (scalar)
     The last search string used by an interactive search that was
     aborted by the user (status 3 returned by the search widget).

LASTSEARCH (scalar)
     The last search string used by an interactive search; read-only.
     This is set even if the search failed (status 0, 1 or 2 returned by
     the search widget), but not if it was aborted by the user.

LASTWIDGET (scalar)
     The name of the last widget that was executed; read-only.

LBUFFER (scalar)
     The part of the buffer that lies to the left of the cursor
     position.  If it is assigned to, only that part of the buffer is
     replaced, and the cursor remains between the new $LBUFFER and the
     old $RBUFFER.

MARK (integer)
     Like CURSOR, but for the mark.  With vi-mode operators that wait
     for a movement command to select a region of text, setting MARK
     allows the selection to extend in both directions from the initial
     cursor position.

NUMERIC (integer)
     The numeric argument.  If no numeric argument was given, this
     parameter is unset.  When this is set inside a widget function,
     builtin widgets called with the zle builtin command will use the
     value assigned.  If it is unset inside a widget function, builtin
     widgets called behave as if no numeric argument was given.

PENDING (integer)
     The number of bytes pending for input, i.e.  the number of bytes
     which have already been typed and can immediately be read.  On
     systems where the shell is not able to get this information, this
     parameter will always have a value of zero.  Read-only.  See also
     KEYS_QUEUED_COUNT; the two values are distinct.

PREBUFFER (scalar)
     In a multi-line input at the secondary prompt, this read-only
     parameter contains the contents of the lines before the one the
     cursor is currently in.

PREDISPLAY (scalar)
     Text to be displayed before the start of the editable text buffer.
     This does not have to be a complete line; to display a complete
     line, a newline must be appended explicitly.  The text is reset on
     each new invocation (but not recursive invocation) of zle.

POSTDISPLAY (scalar)
     Text to be displayed after the end of the editable text buffer.
     This does not have to be a complete line; to display a complete
     line, a newline must be prepended explicitly.  The text is reset on
     each new invocation (but not recursive invocation) of zle.

RBUFFER (scalar)
     The part of the buffer that lies to the right of the cursor
     position.  If it is assigned to, only that part of the buffer is
     replaced, and the cursor remains between the old $LBUFFER and the
     new $RBUFFER.

REGION_ACTIVE (integer)
     Indicates if the region is currently active.  It can be assigned 0
     or 1 to deactivate and activate the region respectively.  A value
     of 2 activates the region in line-wise mode with the highlighted
     text extending for whole lines only; see *note Character
     Highlighting::.

region_highlight (array)
     Each element of this array may be set to a string that describes
     highlighting for an arbitrary region of the command line that will
     take effect the next time the command line is redisplayed.
     Highlighting of the non-editable parts of the command line in
     PREDISPLAY and POSTDISPLAY are possible, but note that the P flag
     is needed for character indexing to include PREDISPLAY.

     Each string consists of the following parts:


        * Optionally, a 'P' to signify that the start and end offset
          that follow include any string set by the PREDISPLAY special
          parameter; this is needed if the predisplay string itself is
          to be highlighted.  Whitespace may follow the 'P'.
        * A start offset in the same units as CURSOR, terminated by
          whitespace.
        * An end offset in the same units as CURSOR, terminated by
          whitespace.
        * A highlight specification in the same format as used for
          contexts in the parameter zle_highlight, see *note Character
          Highlighting::; for example, standout or fg=red,bold.

     For example,

          region_highlight=("P0 20 bold")

     specifies that the first twenty characters of the text including
     any predisplay string should be highlighted in bold.

     Note that the effect of region_highlight is not saved and
     disappears as soon as the line is accepted.

     The final highlighting on the command line depends on both
     region_highlight and zle_highlight; see *note Character
     Highlighting:: for details.

registers (associative array)
     The contents of each of the vi register buffers.  These are
     typically set using vi-set-buffer followed by a delete, change or
     yank command.

SUFFIX_ACTIVE (integer)
SUFFIX_START (integer)
SUFFIX_END (integer)
     SUFFIX_ACTIVE indicates whether an auto-removable completion suffix
     is currently active.  SUFFIX_START and SUFFIX_END give the location
     of the suffix and are in the same units as CURSOR.  They are only
     valid for reading when SUFFIX_ACTIVE is non-zero.

     All parameters are read-only.

UNDO_CHANGE_NO (integer)
     A number representing the state of the undo history.  The only use
     of this is passing as an argument to the undo widget in order to
     undo back to the recorded point.  Read-only.

UNDO_LIMIT_NO (integer)
     A number corresponding to an existing change in the undo history;
     compare UNDO_CHANGE_NO.  If this is set to a value greater than
     zero, the undo command will not allow the line to be undone beyond
     the given change number.  It is still possible to use 'zle undo
     CHANGE' in a widget to undo beyond that point; in that case, it
     will not be possible to undo at all until UNDO_LIMIT_NO is reduced.
     Set to 0 to disable the limit.

     A typical use of this variable in a widget function is as follows
     (note the additional function scope is required):

          () {
            local UNDO_LIMIT_NO=$UNDO_CHANGE_NO
            # Perform some form of recursive edit.
          }

WIDGET (scalar)
     The name of the widget currently being executed; read-only.

WIDGETFUNC (scalar)
     The name of the shell function that implements a widget defined
     with either zle -N or zle -C.  In the former case, this is the
     second argument to the zle -N command that defined the widget, or
     the first argument if there was no second argument.  In the latter
     case this is the third argument to the zle -C command that defined
     the widget.  Read-only.

WIDGETSTYLE (scalar)
     Describes the implementation behind the completion widget currently
     being executed; the second argument that followed zle -C when the
     widget was defined.  This is the name of a builtin completion
     widget.  For widgets defined with zle -N this is set to the empty
     string.  Read-only.

YANK_ACTIVE (integer)
YANK_START (integer)
YANK_END (integer)
     YANK_ACTIVE indicates whether text has just been yanked (pasted)
     into the buffer.  YANK_START and YANK_END give the location of the
     pasted text and are in the same units as CURSOR.  They are only
     valid for reading when YANK_ACTIVE is non-zero.  They can also be
     assigned by widgets that insert text in a yank-like fashion, for
     example wrappers of bracketed-paste.  See also zle -f.

     YANK_ACTIVE is read-only.

ZLE_RECURSIVE (integer)
     Usually zero, but incremented inside any instance of
     recursive-edit.  Hence indicates the current recursion level.

     ZLE_RECURSIVE is read-only.

ZLE_STATE (scalar)
     Contains a set of space-separated words that describe the current
     zle state.

     Currently, the states shown are the insert mode as set by the
     overwrite-mode or vi-replace widgets and whether history commands
     will visit imported entries as controlled by the set-local-history
     widget.  The string contains 'insert' if characters to be inserted
     on the command line move existing characters to the right or
     'overwrite' if characters to be inserted overwrite existing
     characters.  It contains 'localhistory' if only local history
     commands will be visited or 'globalhistory' if imported history
     commands will also be visited.

     The substrings are sorted in alphabetical order so that if you want
     to test for two specific substrings in a future-proof way, you can
     do match by doing:

          if [[ $ZLE_STATE == *globalhistory*insert* ]]; then ...; fi


18.5.1 Special Widgets
----------------------


There are a few user-defined widgets which are special to the shell.  If
they do not exist, no special action is taken.  The environment provided
is identical to that for any other editing widget.

zle-isearch-exit
     Executed at the end of incremental search at the point where the
     isearch prompt is removed from the display.  See zle-isearch-update
     for an example.

zle-isearch-update
     Executed within incremental search when the display is about to be
     redrawn.  Additional output below the incremental search prompt can
     be generated by using 'zle -M' within the widget.  For example,

          zle-isearch-update() { zle -M "Line $HISTNO"; }
          zle -N zle-isearch-update

     Note the line output by 'zle -M' is not deleted on exit from
     incremental search.  This can be done from a zle-isearch-exit
     widget:

          zle-isearch-exit() { zle -M ""; }
          zle -N zle-isearch-exit

zle-line-pre-redraw
     Executed whenever the input line is about to be redrawn, providing
     an opportunity to update the region_highlight array.

zle-line-init
     Executed every time the line editor is started to read a new line
     of input.  The following example puts the line editor into vi
     command mode when it starts up.

          zle-line-init() { zle -K vicmd; }
          zle -N zle-line-init

     (The command inside the function sets the keymap directly; it is
     equivalent to zle vi-cmd-mode.)

zle-line-finish
     This is similar to zle-line-init but is executed every time the
     line editor has finished reading a line of input.

zle-history-line-set
     Executed when the history line changes.

zle-keymap-select
     Executed every time the keymap changes, i.e.  the special parameter
     KEYMAP is set to a different value, while the line editor is
     active.  Initialising the keymap when the line editor starts does
     not cause the widget to be called.

     The value $KEYMAP within the function reflects the new keymap.  The
     old keymap is passed as the sole argument.

     This can be used for detecting switches between the vi command
     (vicmd) and insert (usually main) keymaps.


