18.6 Standard Widgets
=====================

The following is a list of all the standard widgets, and their default
bindings in emacs mode, vi command mode and vi insert mode (the 'emacs',
'vicmd' and 'viins' keymaps, respectively).

Note that cursor keys are bound to movement keys in all three keymaps;
the shell assumes that the cursor keys send the key sequences reported
by the terminal-handling library (termcap or terminfo).  The key
sequences shown in the list are those based on the VT100, common on many
modern terminals, but in fact these are not necessarily bound.  In the
case of the viins keymap, the initial escape character of the sequences
serves also to return to the vicmd keymap: whether this happens is
determined by the KEYTIMEOUT parameter, see *note Parameters::.
* Menu:

* Movement::
* History Control::
* Modifying Text::
* Arguments::
* Completion::
* Miscellaneous::
* Text Objects::

File: zsh.info,  Node: Movement,  Next: History Control,  Up: Zle Widgets

18.6.1 Movement
---------------

vi-backward-blank-word (unbound) (B) (unbound)
     Move backward one word, where a word is defined as a series of
     non-blank characters.

vi-backward-blank-word-end (unbound) (gE) (unbound)
     Move to the end of the previous word, where a word is defined as a
     series of non-blank characters.

backward-char (^B ESC-[D) (unbound) (unbound)
     Move backward one character.

vi-backward-char (unbound) (^H h ^?) (ESC-[D)
     Move backward one character, without changing lines.

backward-word (ESC-B ESC-b) (unbound) (unbound)
     Move to the beginning of the previous word.

emacs-backward-word
     Move to the beginning of the previous word.

vi-backward-word (unbound) (b) (unbound)
     Move to the beginning of the previous word, vi-style.

vi-backward-word-end (unbound) (ge) (unbound)
     Move to the end of the previous word, vi-style.

beginning-of-line (^A) (unbound) (unbound)
     Move to the beginning of the line.  If already at the beginning of
     the line, move to the beginning of the previous line, if any.

vi-beginning-of-line
     Move to the beginning of the line, without changing lines.

down-line (unbound) (unbound) (unbound)
     Move down a line in the buffer.

end-of-line (^E) (unbound) (unbound)
     Move to the end of the line.  If already at the end of the line,
     move to the end of the next line, if any.

vi-end-of-line (unbound) ($) (unbound)
     Move to the end of the line.  If an argument is given to this
     command, the cursor will be moved to the end of the line (argument
     - 1) lines down.

vi-forward-blank-word (unbound) (W) (unbound)
     Move forward one word, where a word is defined as a series of
     non-blank characters.

vi-forward-blank-word-end (unbound) (E) (unbound)
     Move to the end of the current word, or, if at the end of the
     current word, to the end of the next word, where a word is defined
     as a series of non-blank characters.

forward-char (^F ESC-[C) (unbound) (unbound)
     Move forward one character.

vi-forward-char (unbound) (space l) (ESC-[C)
     Move forward one character.

vi-find-next-char (^X^F) (f) (unbound)
     Read a character from the keyboard, and move to the next occurrence
     of it in the line.

vi-find-next-char-skip (unbound) (t) (unbound)
     Read a character from the keyboard, and move to the position just
     before the next occurrence of it in the line.

vi-find-prev-char (unbound) (F) (unbound)
     Read a character from the keyboard, and move to the previous
     occurrence of it in the line.

vi-find-prev-char-skip (unbound) (T) (unbound)
     Read a character from the keyboard, and move to the position just
     after the previous occurrence of it in the line.

vi-first-non-blank (unbound) (^) (unbound)
     Move to the first non-blank character in the line.

vi-forward-word (unbound) (w) (unbound)
     Move forward one word, vi-style.

forward-word (ESC-F ESC-f) (unbound) (unbound)
     Move to the beginning of the next word.  The editor's idea of a
     word is specified with the WORDCHARS parameter.

emacs-forward-word
     Move to the end of the next word.

vi-forward-word-end (unbound) (e) (unbound)
     Move to the end of the next word.

vi-goto-column (ESC-|) (|) (unbound)
     Move to the column specified by the numeric argument.

vi-goto-mark (unbound) (`) (unbound)
     Move to the specified mark.

vi-goto-mark-line (unbound) (') (unbound)
     Move to beginning of the line containing the specified mark.

vi-repeat-find (unbound) (;) (unbound)
     Repeat the last vi-find command.

vi-rev-repeat-find (unbound) (,) (unbound)
     Repeat the last vi-find command in the opposite direction.

up-line (unbound) (unbound) (unbound)
     Move up a line in the buffer.

File: zsh.info,  Node: History Control,  Next: Modifying Text,  Prev: Movement,  Up: Zle Widgets

18.6.2 History Control
----------------------

beginning-of-buffer-or-history (ESC-<) (gg) (unbound)
     Move to the beginning of the buffer, or if already there, move to
     the first event in the history list.

beginning-of-line-hist
     Move to the beginning of the line.  If already at the beginning of
     the buffer, move to the previous history line.

beginning-of-history
     Move to the first event in the history list.

down-line-or-history (^N ESC-[B) (j) (ESC-[B)
     Move down a line in the buffer, or if already at the bottom line,
     move to the next event in the history list.

vi-down-line-or-history (unbound) (+) (unbound)
     Move down a line in the buffer, or if already at the bottom line,
     move to the next event in the history list.  Then move to the first
     non-blank character on the line.

down-line-or-search
     Move down a line in the buffer, or if already at the bottom line,
     search forward in the history for a line beginning with the first
     word in the buffer.

     If called from a function by the zle command with arguments, the
     first argument is taken as the string for which to search, rather
     than the first word in the buffer.

down-history (unbound) (^N) (unbound)
     Move to the next event in the history list.

history-beginning-search-backward
     Search backward in the history for a line beginning with the
     current line up to the cursor.  This leaves the cursor in its
     original position.

end-of-buffer-or-history (ESC->) (unbound) (unbound)
     Move to the end of the buffer, or if already there, move to the
     last event in the history list.

end-of-line-hist
     Move to the end of the line.  If already at the end of the buffer,
     move to the next history line.

end-of-history
     Move to the last event in the history list.

vi-fetch-history (unbound) (G) (unbound)
     Fetch the history line specified by the numeric argument.  This
     defaults to the current history line (i.e.  the one that isn't
     history yet).

history-incremental-search-backward (^R ^Xr) (unbound) (unbound)
     Search backward incrementally for a specified string.  The search
     is case-insensitive if the search string does not have uppercase
     letters and no numeric argument was given.  The string may begin
     with '^' to anchor the search to the beginning of the line.  When
     called from a user-defined function returns the following statuses:
     0, if the search succeeded; 1, if the search failed; 2, if the
     search term was a bad pattern; 3, if the search was aborted by the
     send-break command.

     A restricted set of editing functions is available in the
     mini-buffer.  Keys are looked up in the special isearch keymap, and
     if not found there in the main keymap (note that by default the
     isearch keymap is empty).  An interrupt signal, as defined by the
     stty setting, will stop the search and go back to the original
     line.  An undefined key will have the same effect.  Note that the
     following always perform the same task within incremental searches
     and cannot be replaced by user defined widgets, nor can the set of
     functions be extended.  The supported functions are:

     accept-and-hold
     accept-and-infer-next-history
     accept-line
     accept-line-and-down-history
          Perform the usual function after exiting incremental search.
          The command line displayed is executed.

     backward-delete-char
     vi-backward-delete-char
          Back up one place in the search history.  If the search has
          been repeated this does not immediately erase a character in
          the minibuffer.

     accept-search
          Exit incremental search, retaining the command line but
          performing no further action.  Note that this function is not
          bound by default and has no effect outside incremental search.

     backward-delete-word
     backward-kill-word
     vi-backward-kill-word
          Back up one character in the minibuffer; if multiple searches
          have been performed since the character was inserted the
          search history is rewound to the point just before the
          character was entered.  Hence this has the effect of repeating
          backward-delete-char.

     clear-screen
          Clear the screen, remaining in incremental search mode.

     history-incremental-search-backward
          Find the next occurrence of the contents of the mini-buffer.
          If the mini-buffer is empty, the most recent previously used
          search string is reinstated.

     history-incremental-search-forward
          Invert the sense of the search.

     magic-space
          Inserts a non-magical space.

     quoted-insert
     vi-quoted-insert
          Quote the character to insert into the minibuffer.

     redisplay
          Redisplay the command line, remaining in incremental search
          mode.

     vi-cmd-mode
          Select the 'vicmd' keymap; the 'main' keymap (insert mode)
          will be selected initially.

          In addition, the modifications that were made while in vi
          insert mode are merged to form a single undo event.

     vi-repeat-search
     vi-rev-repeat-search
          Repeat the search.  The direction of the search is indicated
          in the mini-buffer.

     Any character that is not bound to one of the above functions, or
     self-insert or self-insert-unmeta, will cause the mode to be
     exited.  The character is then looked up and executed in the keymap
     in effect at that point.

     When called from a widget function by the zle command, the
     incremental search commands can take a string argument.  This will
     be treated as a string of keys, as for arguments to the bindkey
     command, and used as initial input for the command.  Any characters
     in the string which are unused by the incremental search will be
     silently ignored.  For example,

          zle history-incremental-search-backward forceps

     will search backwards for forceps, leaving the minibuffer
     containing the string 'forceps'.

history-incremental-search-forward (^S ^Xs) (unbound) (unbound)
     Search forward incrementally for a specified string.  The search is
     case-insensitive if the search string does not have uppercase
     letters and no numeric argument was given.  The string may begin
     with '^' to anchor the search to the beginning of the line.  The
     functions available in the mini-buffer are the same as for
     history-incremental-search-backward.

history-incremental-pattern-search-backward
history-incremental-pattern-search-forward
     These widgets behave similarly to the corresponding widgets with no
     -pattern, but the search string typed by the user is treated as a
     pattern, respecting the current settings of the various options
     affecting pattern matching.  See *note Filename Generation:: for a
     description of patterns.  If no numeric argument was given
     lowercase letters in the search string may match uppercase letters
     in the history.  The string may begin with '^' to anchor the search
     to the beginning of the line.

     The prompt changes to indicate an invalid pattern; this may simply
     indicate the pattern is not yet complete.

     Note that only non-overlapping matches are reported, so an
     expression with wildcards may return fewer matches on a line than
     are visible by inspection.

history-search-backward (ESC-P ESC-p) (unbound) (unbound)
     Search backward in the history for a line beginning with the first
     word in the buffer.

     If called from a function by the zle command with arguments, the
     first argument is taken as the string for which to search, rather
     than the first word in the buffer.

vi-history-search-backward (unbound) (/) (unbound)
     Search backward in the history for a specified string.  The string
     may begin with '^' to anchor the search to the beginning of the
     line.

     A restricted set of editing functions is available in the
     mini-buffer.  An interrupt signal, as defined by the stty setting,
     will stop the search.  The functions available in the mini-buffer
     are: accept-line, backward-delete-char, vi-backward-delete-char,
     backward-kill-word, vi-backward-kill-word, clear-screen, redisplay,
     quoted-insert and vi-quoted-insert.

     vi-cmd-mode is treated the same as accept-line, and magic-space is
     treated as a space.  Any other character that is not bound to
     self-insert or self-insert-unmeta will beep and be ignored.  If the
     function is called from vi command mode, the bindings of the
     current insert mode will be used.

     If called from a function by the zle command with arguments, the
     first argument is taken as the string for which to search, rather
     than the first word in the buffer.

history-search-forward (ESC-N ESC-n) (unbound) (unbound)
     Search forward in the history for a line beginning with the first
     word in the buffer.

     If called from a function by the zle command with arguments, the
     first argument is taken as the string for which to search, rather
     than the first word in the buffer.

vi-history-search-forward (unbound) (?) (unbound)
     Search forward in the history for a specified string.  The string
     may begin with '^' to anchor the search to the beginning of the
     line.  The functions available in the mini-buffer are the same as
     for vi-history-search-backward.  Argument handling is also the same
     as for that command.

infer-next-history (^X^N) (unbound) (unbound)
     Search in the history list for a line matching the current one and
     fetch the event following it.

insert-last-word (ESC-_ ESC-.) (unbound) (unbound)
     Insert the last word from the previous history event at the cursor
     position.  If a positive numeric argument is given, insert that
     word from the end of the previous history event.  If the argument
     is zero or negative insert that word from the left (zero inserts
     the previous command word).  Repeating this command replaces the
     word just inserted with the last word from the history event prior
     to the one just used; numeric arguments can be used in the same way
     to pick a word from that event.

     When called from a shell function invoked from a user-defined
     widget, the command can take one to three arguments.  The first
     argument specifies a history offset which applies to successive
     calls to this widget: if it is -1, the default behaviour is used,
     while if it is 1, successive calls will move forwards through the
     history.  The value 0 can be used to indicate that the history line
     examined by the previous execution of the command will be
     reexamined.  Note that negative numbers should be preceded by a
     '--' argument to avoid confusing them with options.

     If two arguments are given, the second specifies the word on the
     command line in normal array index notation (as a more natural
     alternative to the numeric argument).  Hence 1 is the first word,
     and -1 (the default) is the last word.

     If a third argument is given, its value is ignored, but it is used
     to signify that the history offset is relative to the current
     history line, rather than the one remembered after the previous
     invocations of insert-last-word.

     For example, the default behaviour of the command corresponds to

          zle insert-last-word -- -1 -1

     while the command

          zle insert-last-word -- -1 1 -

     always copies the first word of the line in the history immediately
     before the line being edited.  This has the side effect that later
     invocations of the widget will be relative to that line.

vi-repeat-search (unbound) (n) (unbound)
     Repeat the last vi history search.

vi-rev-repeat-search (unbound) (N) (unbound)
     Repeat the last vi history search, but in reverse.

up-line-or-history (^P ESC-[A) (k) (ESC-[A)
     Move up a line in the buffer, or if already at the top line, move
     to the previous event in the history list.

vi-up-line-or-history (unbound) (-) (unbound)
     Move up a line in the buffer, or if already at the top line, move
     to the previous event in the history list.  Then move to the first
     non-blank character on the line.

up-line-or-search
     Move up a line in the buffer, or if already at the top line, search
     backward in the history for a line beginning with the first word in
     the buffer.

     If called from a function by the zle command with arguments, the
     first argument is taken as the string for which to search, rather
     than the first word in the buffer.

up-history (unbound) (^P) (unbound)
     Move to the previous event in the history list.

history-beginning-search-forward
     Search forward in the history for a line beginning with the current
     line up to the cursor.  This leaves the cursor in its original
     position.

set-local-history
     By default, history movement commands visit the imported lines as
     well as the local lines.  This widget lets you toggle this on and
     off, or set it with the numeric argument.  Zero for both local and
     imported lines and nonzero for only local lines.

File: zsh.info,  Node: Modifying Text,  Next: Arguments,  Prev: History Control,  Up: Zle Widgets

18.6.3 Modifying Text
---------------------

vi-add-eol (unbound) (A) (unbound)
     Move to the end of the line and enter insert mode.

vi-add-next (unbound) (a) (unbound)
     Enter insert mode after the current cursor position, without
     changing lines.

backward-delete-char (^H ^?) (unbound) (unbound)
     Delete the character behind the cursor.

vi-backward-delete-char (unbound) (X) (^H)
     Delete the character behind the cursor, without changing lines.  If
     in insert mode, this won't delete past the point where insert mode
     was last entered.

backward-delete-word
     Delete the word behind the cursor.

backward-kill-line
     Kill from the beginning of the line to the cursor position.

backward-kill-word (^W ESC-^H ESC-^?) (unbound) (unbound)
     Kill the word behind the cursor.

vi-backward-kill-word (unbound) (unbound) (^W)
     Kill the word behind the cursor, without going past the point where
     insert mode was last entered.

capitalize-word (ESC-C ESC-c) (unbound) (unbound)
     Capitalize the current word and move past it.

vi-change (unbound) (c) (unbound)
     Read a movement command from the keyboard, and kill from the cursor
     position to the endpoint of the movement.  Then enter insert mode.
     If the command is vi-change, change the current line.

     For compatibility with vi, if the command is vi-forward-word or
     vi-forward-blank-word, the whitespace after the word is not
     included.  If you prefer the more consistent behaviour with the
     whitespace included use the following key binding:

          bindkey -a -s cw dwi

vi-change-eol (unbound) (C) (unbound)
     Kill to the end of the line and enter insert mode.

vi-change-whole-line (unbound) (S) (unbound)
     Kill the current line and enter insert mode.

copy-region-as-kill (ESC-W ESC-w) (unbound) (unbound)
     Copy the area from the cursor to the mark to the kill buffer.

     If called from a ZLE widget function in the form 'zle
     copy-region-as-kill STRING' then STRING will be taken as the text
     to copy to the kill buffer.  The cursor, the mark and the text on
     the command line are not used in this case.

copy-prev-word (ESC-^_) (unbound) (unbound)
     Duplicate the word to the left of the cursor.

copy-prev-shell-word
     Like copy-prev-word, but the word is found by using shell parsing,
     whereas copy-prev-word looks for blanks.  This makes a difference
     when the word is quoted and contains spaces.

vi-delete (unbound) (d) (unbound)
     Read a movement command from the keyboard, and kill from the cursor
     position to the endpoint of the movement.  If the command is
     vi-delete, kill the current line.

delete-char
     Delete the character under the cursor.

vi-delete-char (unbound) (x) (unbound)
     Delete the character under the cursor, without going past the end
     of the line.

delete-word
     Delete the current word.

down-case-word (ESC-L ESC-l) (unbound) (unbound)
     Convert the current word to all lowercase and move past it.

vi-down-case (unbound) (gu) (unbound)
     Read a movement command from the keyboard, and convert all
     characters from the cursor position to the endpoint of the movement
     to lowercase.  If the movement command is vi-down-case, swap the
     case of all characters on the current line.

kill-word (ESC-D ESC-d) (unbound) (unbound)
     Kill the current word.

gosmacs-transpose-chars
     Exchange the two characters behind the cursor.

vi-indent (unbound) (>) (unbound)
     Indent a number of lines.

vi-insert (unbound) (i) (unbound)
     Enter insert mode.

vi-insert-bol (unbound) (I) (unbound)
     Move to the first non-blank character on the line and enter insert
     mode.

vi-join (^X^J) (J) (unbound)
     Join the current line with the next one.

kill-line (^K) (unbound) (unbound)
     Kill from the cursor to the end of the line.  If already on the end
     of the line, kill the newline character.

vi-kill-line (unbound) (unbound) (^U)
     Kill from the cursor back to wherever insert mode was last entered.

vi-kill-eol (unbound) (D) (unbound)
     Kill from the cursor to the end of the line.

kill-region
     Kill from the cursor to the mark.

kill-buffer (^X^K) (unbound) (unbound)
     Kill the entire buffer.

kill-whole-line (^U) (unbound) (unbound)
     Kill the current line.

vi-match-bracket (^X^B) (%) (unbound)
     Move to the bracket character (one of {}, () or []) that matches
     the one under the cursor.  If the cursor is not on a bracket
     character, move forward without going past the end of the line to
     find one, and then go to the matching bracket.

vi-open-line-above (unbound) (O) (unbound)
     Open a line above the cursor and enter insert mode.

vi-open-line-below (unbound) (o) (unbound)
     Open a line below the cursor and enter insert mode.

vi-oper-swap-case (unbound) (g~) (unbound)
     Read a movement command from the keyboard, and swap the case of all
     characters from the cursor position to the endpoint of the
     movement.  If the movement command is vi-oper-swap-case, swap the
     case of all characters on the current line.

overwrite-mode (^X^O) (unbound) (unbound)
     Toggle between overwrite mode and insert mode.

vi-put-before (unbound) (P) (unbound)
     Insert the contents of the kill buffer before the cursor.  If the
     kill buffer contains a sequence of lines (as opposed to
     characters), paste it above the current line.

vi-put-after (unbound) (p) (unbound)
     Insert the contents of the kill buffer after the cursor.  If the
     kill buffer contains a sequence of lines (as opposed to
     characters), paste it below the current line.

put-replace-selection (unbound) (unbound) (unbound)
     Replace the contents of the current region or selection with the
     contents of the kill buffer.  If the kill buffer contains a
     sequence of lines (as opposed to characters), the current line will
     be split by the pasted lines.

quoted-insert (^V) (unbound) (unbound)
     Insert the next character typed into the buffer literally.  An
     interrupt character will not be inserted.

vi-quoted-insert (unbound) (unbound) (^Q ^V)
     Display a '^' at the cursor position, and insert the next character
     typed into the buffer literally.  An interrupt character will not
     be inserted.

quote-line (ESC-') (unbound) (unbound)
     Quote the current line; that is, put a ''' character at the
     beginning and the end, and convert all ''' characters to ''\'''.

quote-region (ESC-") (unbound) (unbound)
     Quote the region from the cursor to the mark.

vi-replace (unbound) (R) (unbound)
     Enter overwrite mode.

vi-repeat-change (unbound) (.) (unbound)
     Repeat the last vi mode text modification.  If a count was used
     with the modification, it is remembered.  If a count is given to
     this command, it overrides the remembered count, and is remembered
     for future uses of this command.  The cut buffer specification is
     similarly remembered.

vi-replace-chars (unbound) (r) (unbound)
     Replace the character under the cursor with a character read from
     the keyboard.

self-insert (printable characters) (unbound) (printable characters and some control characters)
     Insert a character into the buffer at the cursor position.

self-insert-unmeta (ESC-^I ESC-^J ESC-^M) (unbound) (unbound)
     Insert a character into the buffer after stripping the meta bit and
     converting ^M to ^J.

vi-substitute (unbound) (s) (unbound)
     Substitute the next character(s).

vi-swap-case (unbound) (~) (unbound)
     Swap the case of the character under the cursor and move past it.

transpose-chars (^T) (unbound) (unbound)
     Exchange the two characters to the left of the cursor if at end of
     line, else exchange the character under the cursor with the
     character to the left.

transpose-words (ESC-T ESC-t) (unbound) (unbound)
     Exchange the current word with the one before it.

     With a positive numeric argument _N_, the word around the cursor,
     or following it if the cursor is between words, is transposed with
     the preceding _N_ words.  The cursor is put at the end of the
     resulting group of words.

     With a negative numeric argument _-N_, the effect is the same as
     using a positive argument _N_ except that the original cursor
     position is retained, regardless of how the words are rearranged.

vi-unindent (unbound) (<) (unbound)
     Unindent a number of lines.

vi-up-case (unbound) (gU) (unbound)
     Read a movement command from the keyboard, and convert all
     characters from the cursor position to the endpoint of the movement
     to lowercase.  If the movement command is vi-up-case, swap the case
     of all characters on the current line.

up-case-word (ESC-U ESC-u) (unbound) (unbound)
     Convert the current word to all caps and move past it.

yank (^Y) (unbound) (unbound)
     Insert the contents of the kill buffer at the cursor position.

yank-pop (ESC-y) (unbound) (unbound)
     Remove the text just yanked, rotate the kill-ring (the history of
     previously killed text) and yank the new top.  Only works following
     yank, vi-put-before, vi-put-after or yank-pop.

vi-yank (unbound) (y) (unbound)
     Read a movement command from the keyboard, and copy the region from
     the cursor position to the endpoint of the movement into the kill
     buffer.  If the command is vi-yank, copy the current line.

vi-yank-whole-line (unbound) (Y) (unbound)
     Copy the current line into the kill buffer.

vi-yank-eol
     Copy the region from the cursor position to the end of the line
     into the kill buffer.  Arguably, this is what Y should do in vi,
     but it isn't what it actually does.

File: zsh.info,  Node: Arguments,  Next: Completion,  Prev: Modifying Text,  Up: Zle Widgets

18.6.4 Arguments
----------------

digit-argument (ESC-0..ESC-9) (1-9) (unbound)
     Start a new numeric argument, or add to the current one.  See also
     vi-digit-or-beginning-of-line.  This only works if bound to a key
     sequence ending in a decimal digit.

     Inside a widget function, a call to this function treats the last
     key of the key sequence which called the widget as the digit.

neg-argument (ESC--) (unbound) (unbound)
     Changes the sign of the following argument.

universal-argument
     Multiply the argument of the next command by 4.  Alternatively, if
     this command is followed by an integer (positive or negative), use
     that as the argument for the next command.  Thus digits cannot be
     repeated using this command.  For example, if this command occurs
     twice, followed immediately by forward-char, move forward sixteen
     spaces; if instead it is followed by -2, then forward-char, move
     backward two spaces.

     Inside a widget function, if passed an argument, i.e.  'zle
     universal-argument NUM', the numeric argument will be set to NUM;
     this is equivalent to 'NUMERIC=NUM'.

argument-base
     Use the existing numeric argument as a numeric base, which must be
     in the range 2 to 36 inclusive.  Subsequent use of digit-argument
     and universal-argument will input a new numeric argument in the
     given base.  The usual hexadecimal convention is used: the letter a
     or A corresponds to 10, and so on.  Arguments in bases requiring
     digits from 10 upwards are more conveniently input with
     universal-argument, since ESC-a etc.  are not usually bound to
     digit-argument.

     The function can be used with a command argument inside a
     user-defined widget.  The following code sets the base to 16 and
     lets the user input a hexadecimal argument until a key out of the
     digit range is typed:

          zle argument-base 16
          zle universal-argument

File: zsh.info,  Node: Completion,  Next: Miscellaneous,  Prev: Arguments,  Up: Zle Widgets

18.6.5 Completion
-----------------

accept-and-menu-complete
     In a menu completion, insert the current completion into the
     buffer, and advance to the next possible completion.

complete-word
     Attempt completion on the current word.

delete-char-or-list (^D) (unbound) (unbound)
     Delete the character under the cursor.  If the cursor is at the end
     of the line, list possible completions for the current word.

expand-cmd-path
     Expand the current command to its full pathname.

expand-or-complete (TAB) (unbound) (TAB)
     Attempt shell expansion on the current word.  If that fails,
     attempt completion.

expand-or-complete-prefix
     Attempt shell expansion on the current word up to cursor.

expand-history (ESC-space ESC-!) (unbound) (unbound)
     Perform history expansion on the edit buffer.

expand-word (^X*) (unbound) (unbound)
     Attempt shell expansion on the current word.

list-choices (ESC-^D) (^D =) (^D)
     List possible completions for the current word.

list-expand (^Xg ^XG) (^G) (^G)
     List the expansion of the current word.

magic-space
     Perform history expansion and insert a space into the buffer.  This
     is intended to be bound to space.

menu-complete
     Like complete-word, except that menu completion is used.  See the
     MENU_COMPLETE option.

menu-expand-or-complete
     Like expand-or-complete, except that menu completion is used.

reverse-menu-complete
     Perform menu completion, like menu-complete, except that if a menu
     completion is already in progress, move to the _previous_
     completion rather than the next.

end-of-list
     When a previous completion displayed a list below the prompt, this
     widget can be used to move the prompt below the list.

File: zsh.info,  Node: Miscellaneous,  Next: Text Objects,  Prev: Completion,  Up: Zle Widgets

18.6.6 Miscellaneous
--------------------

accept-and-hold (ESC-A ESC-a) (unbound) (unbound)
     Push the contents of the buffer on the buffer stack and execute it.

accept-and-infer-next-history
     Execute the contents of the buffer.  Then search the history list
     for a line matching the current one and push the event following
     onto the buffer stack.

accept-line (^J ^M) (^J ^M) (^J ^M)
     Finish editing the buffer.  Normally this causes the buffer to be
     executed as a shell command.

accept-line-and-down-history (^O) (unbound) (unbound)
     Execute the current line, and push the next history event on the
     buffer stack.

auto-suffix-remove
     If the previous action added a suffix (space, slash, etc.)  to the
     word on the command line, remove it.  Otherwise do nothing.
     Removing the suffix ends any active menu completion or menu
     selection.

     This widget is intended to be called from user-defined widgets to
     enforce a desired suffix-removal behavior.

auto-suffix-retain
     If the previous action added a suffix (space, slash, etc.)  to the
     word on the command line, force it to be preserved.  Otherwise do
     nothing.  Retaining the suffix ends any active menu completion or
     menu selection.

     This widget is intended to be called from user-defined widgets to
     enforce a desired suffix-preservation behavior.

beep
     Beep, unless the BEEP option is unset.

bracketed-paste
     This widget is invoked when text is pasted to the terminal
     emulator.  It is not intended to be bound to actual keys but
     instead to the special sequence generated by the terminal emulator
     when text is pasted.

     When invoked interactively, the pasted text is inserted to the
     buffer and placed in the cutbuffer.  If a numeric argument is
     given, shell quoting will be applied to the pasted text before it
     is inserted.

     When a named buffer is specified with vi-set-buffer ("x), the
     pasted text is stored in that named buffer but not inserted.

     When called from a widget function as 'bracketed-paste NAME', the
     pasted text is assigned to the variable NAME and no other
     processing is done.

     See also the zle_bracketed_paste parameter.

vi-cmd-mode (^X^V) (unbound) (^[)
     Enter command mode; that is, select the 'vicmd' keymap.  Yes, this
     is bound by default in emacs mode.

vi-caps-lock-panic
     Hang until any lowercase key is pressed.  This is for vi users
     without the mental capacity to keep track of their caps lock key
     (like the author).

clear-screen (^L ESC-^L) (^L) (^L)
     Clear the screen and redraw the prompt.

deactivate-region
     Make the current region inactive.  This disables vim-style visual
     selection mode if it is active.

describe-key-briefly
     Reads a key sequence, then prints the function bound to that
     sequence.

exchange-point-and-mark (^X^X) (unbound) (unbound)
     Exchange the cursor position (point) with the position of the mark.
     Unless a negative numeric argument is given, the region between
     point and mark is activated so that it can be highlighted.  If a
     zero numeric argument is given, the region is activated but point
     and mark are not swapped.

execute-named-cmd (ESC-x) (:) (unbound)
     Read the name of an editor command and execute it.  Aliasing this
     widget with 'zle -A' or replacing it with 'zle -N' has no effect
     when interpreting key bindings, but 'zle execute-named-cmd' will
     invoke such an alias or replacement.

     A restricted set of editing functions is available in the
     mini-buffer.  Keys are looked up in the special command keymap, and
     if not found there in the main keymap.  An interrupt signal, as
     defined by the stty setting, will abort the function.  Note that
     the following always perform the same task within the
     executed-named-cmd environment and cannot be replaced by user
     defined widgets, nor can the set of functions be extended.  The
     allowed functions are: backward-delete-char,
     vi-backward-delete-char, clear-screen, redisplay, quoted-insert,
     vi-quoted-insert, backward-kill-word, vi-backward-kill-word,
     kill-whole-line, vi-kill-line, backward-kill-line, list-choices,
     delete-char-or-list, complete-word, accept-line, expand-or-complete
     and expand-or-complete-prefix.

     kill-region kills the last word, and vi-cmd-mode is treated the
     same as accept-line.  The space and tab characters, if not bound to
     one of these functions, will complete the name and then list the
     possibilities if the AUTO_LIST option is set.  Any other character
     that is not bound to self-insert or self-insert-unmeta will beep
     and be ignored.  The bindings of the current insert mode will be
     used.

     Currently this command may not be redefined or called by name.

execute-last-named-cmd (ESC-z) (unbound) (unbound)
     Redo the last function executed with execute-named-cmd.

     Like execute-named-cmd, this command may not be redefined, but it
     may be called by name.

get-line (ESC-G ESC-g) (unbound) (unbound)
     Pop the top line off the buffer stack and insert it at the cursor
     position.

pound-insert (unbound) (#) (unbound)
     If there is no # character at the beginning of the buffer, add one
     to the beginning of each line.  If there is one, remove a # from
     each line that has one.  In either case, accept the current line.
     The INTERACTIVE_COMMENTS option must be set for this to have any
     usefulness.

vi-pound-insert
     If there is no # character at the beginning of the current line,
     add one.  If there is one, remove it.  The INTERACTIVE_COMMENTS
     option must be set for this to have any usefulness.

push-input
     Push the entire current multiline construct onto the buffer stack
     and return to the top-level (PS1) prompt.  If the current parser
     construct is only a single line, this is exactly like push-line.
     Next time the editor starts up or is popped with get-line, the
     construct will be popped off the top of the buffer stack and loaded
     into the editing buffer.

push-line (^Q ESC-Q ESC-q) (unbound) (unbound)
     Push the current buffer onto the buffer stack and clear the buffer.
     Next time the editor starts up, the buffer will be popped off the
     top of the buffer stack and loaded into the editing buffer.

push-line-or-edit
     At the top-level (PS1) prompt, equivalent to push-line.  At a
     secondary (PS2) prompt, move the entire current multiline construct
     into the editor buffer.  The latter is equivalent to push-input
     followed by get-line.

read-command
     Only useful from a user-defined widget.  A keystroke is read just
     as in normal operation, but instead of the command being executed
     the name of the command that would be executed is stored in the
     shell parameter REPLY.  This can be used as the argument of a
     future zle command.  If the key sequence is not bound, status 1 is
     returned; typically, however, REPLY is set to undefined-key to
     indicate a useless key sequence.

recursive-edit
     Only useful from a user-defined widget.  At this point in the
     function, the editor regains control until one of the standard
     widgets which would normally cause zle to exit (typically an
     accept-line caused by hitting the return key) is executed.
     Instead, control returns to the user-defined widget.  The status
     returned is non-zero if the return was caused by an error, but the
     function still continues executing and hence may tidy up.  This
     makes it safe for the user-defined widget to alter the command line
     or key bindings temporarily.

     The following widget, caps-lock, serves as an example.

          self-insert-ucase() {
            LBUFFER+=${(U)KEYS[-1]}
          }

          integer stat

          zle -N self-insert self-insert-ucase
          zle -A caps-lock save-caps-lock
          zle -A accept-line caps-lock

          zle recursive-edit
          stat=$?

          zle -A .self-insert self-insert
          zle -A save-caps-lock caps-lock
          zle -D save-caps-lock

          (( stat )) && zle send-break

          return $stat

     This causes typed letters to be inserted capitalised until either
     accept-line (i.e.  typically the return key) is typed or the
     caps-lock widget is invoked again; the later is handled by saving
     the old definition of caps-lock as save-caps-lock and then
     rebinding it to invoke accept-line.  Note that an error from the
     recursive edit is detected as a non-zero return status and
     propagated by using the send-break widget.

redisplay (unbound) (^R) (^R)
     Redisplays the edit buffer.

reset-prompt (unbound) (unbound) (unbound)
     Force the prompts on both the left and right of the screen to be
     re-expanded, then redisplay the edit buffer.  This reflects changes
     both to the prompt variables themselves and changes in the
     expansion of the values (for example, changes in time or directory,
     or changes to the value of variables referred to by the prompt).

     Otherwise, the prompt is only expanded each time zle starts, and
     when the display as been interrupted by output from another part of
     the shell (such as a job notification) which causes the command
     line to be reprinted.

send-break (^G ESC-^G) (unbound) (unbound)
     Abort the current editor function, e.g.  execute-named-command, or
     the editor itself, e.g.  if you are in vared.  Otherwise abort the
     parsing of the current line; in this case the aborted line is
     available in the shell variable ZLE_LINE_ABORTED.  If the editor is
     aborted from within vared, the variable ZLE_VARED_ABORTED is set.

run-help (ESC-H ESC-h) (unbound) (unbound)
     Push the buffer onto the buffer stack, and execute the command
     'run-help CMD', where CMD is the current command.  run-help is
     normally aliased to man.

vi-set-buffer (unbound) (") (unbound)
     Specify a buffer to be used in the following command.  There are 37
     buffers that can be specified: the 26 'named' buffers "a to "z, the
     'yank' buffer "0, the nine 'queued' buffers "1 to "9 and the 'black
     hole' buffer "_.  The named buffers can also be specified as "A to
     "Z.

     When a buffer is specified for a cut, change or yank command, the
     text concerned replaces the previous contents of the specified
     buffer.  If a named buffer is specified using a capital, the newly
     cut text is appended to the buffer instead of overwriting it.  When
     using the "_ buffer, nothing happens.  This can be useful for
     deleting text without affecting any buffers.

     If no buffer is specified for a cut or change command, "1 is used,
     and the contents of "1 to "8 are each shifted along one buffer; the
     contents of "9 is lost.  If no buffer is specified for a yank
     command, "0 is used.  Finally, a paste command without a specified
     buffer will paste the text from the most recent command regardless
     of any buffer that might have been used with that command.

     When called from a widget function by the zle command, the buffer
     can optionally be specified with an argument.  For example,

          zle vi-set-buffer A

vi-set-mark (unbound) (m) (unbound)
     Set the specified mark at the cursor position.

set-mark-command (^@) (unbound) (unbound)
     Set the mark at the cursor position.  If called with a negative
     numeric argument, do not set the mark but deactivate the region so
     that it is no longer highlighted (it is still usable for other
     purposes).  Otherwise the region is marked as active.

spell-word (ESC-$ ESC-S ESC-s) (unbound) (unbound)
     Attempt spelling correction on the current word.

split-undo
     Breaks the undo sequence at the current change.  This is useful in
     vi mode as changes made in insert mode are coalesced on entering
     command mode.  Similarly, undo will normally revert as one all the
     changes made by a user-defined widget.

undefined-key
     This command is executed when a key sequence that is not bound to
     any command is typed.  By default it beeps.

undo (^_ ^Xu ^X^U) (u) (unbound)
     Incrementally undo the last text modification.  When called from a
     user-defined widget, takes an optional argument indicating a
     previous state of the undo history as returned by the
     UNDO_CHANGE_NO variable; modifications are undone until that state
     is reached, subject to any limit imposed by the UNDO_LIMIT_NO
     variable.

     Note that when invoked from vi command mode, the full prior change
     made in insert mode is reverted, the changes having been merged
     when command mode was selected.

redo (unbound) (^R) (unbound)
     Incrementally redo undone text modifications.

vi-undo-change (unbound) (unbound) (unbound)
     Undo the last text modification.  If repeated, redo the
     modification.

visual-mode (unbound) (v) (unbound)
     Toggle vim-style visual selection mode.  If line-wise visual mode
     is currently enabled then it is changed to being character-wise.
     If used following an operator, it forces the subsequent movement
     command to be treated as a character-wise movement.

visual-line-mode (unbound) (V) (unbound)
     Toggle vim-style line-wise visual selection mode.  If
     character-wise visual mode is currently enabled then it is changed
     to being line-wise.  If used following an operator, it forces the
     subsequent movement command to be treated as a line-wise movement.

what-cursor-position (^X=) (ga) (unbound)
     Print the character under the cursor, its code as an octal, decimal
     and hexadecimal number, the current cursor position within the
     buffer and the column of the cursor in the current line.

where-is
     Read the name of an editor command and print the listing of key
     sequences that invoke the specified command.  A restricted set of
     editing functions is available in the mini-buffer.  Keys are looked
     up in the special command keymap, and if not found there in the
     main keymap.

which-command (ESC-?) (unbound) (unbound)
     Push the buffer onto the buffer stack, and execute the command
     'which-command CMD'.  where CMD is the current command.
     which-command is normally aliased to whence.

vi-digit-or-beginning-of-line (unbound) (0) (unbound)
     If the last command executed was a digit as part of an argument,
     continue the argument.  Otherwise, execute vi-beginning-of-line.

File: zsh.info,  Node: Text Objects,  Prev: Miscellaneous,  Up: Zle Widgets

18.6.7 Text Objects
-------------------

Text objects are commands that can be used to select a block of text
according to some criteria.  They are a feature of the vim text editor
and so are primarily intended for use with vi operators or from visual
selection mode.  However, they can also be used from vi-insert or emacs
mode.  Key bindings listed below apply to the viopp and visual keymaps.

select-a-blank-word (aW)
     Select a word including adjacent blanks, where a word is defined as
     a series of non-blank characters.  With a numeric argument,
     multiple words will be selected.

select-a-shell-word (aa)
     Select the current command argument applying the normal rules for
     quoting.

select-a-word (aw)
     Select a word including adjacent blanks, using the normal vi-style
     word definition.  With a numeric argument, multiple words will be
     selected.

select-in-blank-word (iW)
     Select a word, where a word is defined as a series of non-blank
     characters.  With a numeric argument, multiple words will be
     selected.

select-in-shell-word (ia)
     Select the current command argument applying the normal rules for
     quoting.  If the argument begins and ends with matching quote
     characters, these are not included in the selection.

select-in-word (iw)
     Select a word, using the normal vi-style word definition.  With a
     numeric argument, multiple words will be selected.


File: zsh.info,  Node: Character Highlighting,  Prev: Zle Widgets,  Up: Zsh Line Editor

