18.7 Character Highlighting
===========================


The line editor has the ability to highlight characters or regions of
the line that have a particular significance.  This is controlled by the
array parameter zle_highlight, if it has been set by the user.

If the parameter contains the single entry none all highlighting is
turned off.  Note the parameter is still expected to be an array.

Otherwise each entry of the array should consist of a word indicating a
context for highlighting, then a colon, then a comma-separated list of
the types of highlighting to apply in that context.

The contexts available for highlighting are the following:

default
     Any text within the command line not affected by any other
     highlighting.  Text outside the editable area of the command line
     is not affected.

isearch
     When one of the incremental history search widgets is active, the
     area of the command line matched by the search string or pattern.

region
     The currently selected text.  In emacs terminology, this is
     referred to as the region and is bounded by the cursor (point) and
     the mark.  The region is only highlighted if it is active, which is
     the case after the mark is modified with set-mark-command or
     exchange-point-and-mark.  Note that whether or not the region is
     active has no effect on its use within emacs style widgets, it
     simply determines whether it is highlighted.  In vi mode, the
     region corresponds to selected text in visual mode.

special
     Individual characters that have no direct printable representation
     but are shown in a special manner by the line editor.  These
     characters are described below.

suffix
     This context is used in completion for characters that are marked
     as suffixes that will be removed if the completion ends at that
     point, the most obvious example being a slash (/) after a directory
     name.  Note that suffix removal is configurable; the circumstances
     under which the suffix will be removed may differ for different
     completions.

paste
     Following a command to paste text, the characters that were
     inserted.

When region_highlight is set, the contexts that describe a region --
isearch, region, suffix, and paste -- are applied first, then
region_highlight is applied, then the remaining zle_highlight contexts
are applied.  If a particular character is affected by multiple
specifications, the last specification wins.

zle_highlight may contain additional fields for controlling how terminal
sequences to change colours are output.  Each of the following is
followed by a colon and a string in the same form as for key bindings.
This will not be necessary for the vast majority of terminals as the
defaults shown in parentheses are widely used.

fg_start_code (\e[3)
     The start of the escape sequence for the foreground colour.  This
     is followed by one to three ASCII digits representing the colour.
     Only used for palette colors, i.e.  not 24-bit colors specified via
     a color triplet.

fg_default_code (9)
     The number to use instead of the colour to reset the default
     foreground colour.

fg_end_code (m)
     The end of the escape sequence for the foreground colour.

bg_start_code (\e[4)
     The start of the escape sequence for the background colour.  See
     fg_start_code above.

bg_default_code (9)
     The number to use instead of the colour to reset the default
     background colour.

bg_end_code (m)
     The end of the escape sequence for the background colour.

The available types of highlighting are the following.  Note that not
all types of highlighting are available on all terminals:

none
     No highlighting is applied to the given context.  It is not useful
     for this to appear with other types of highlighting; it is used to
     override a default.

fg=COLOUR
     The foreground colour should be set to COLOUR, a decimal integer,
     the name of one of the eight most widely-supported colours or as a
     '#' followed by an RGB triplet in hexadecimal format.

     Not all terminals support this and, of those that do, not all
     provide facilities to test the support, hence the user should
     decide based on the terminal type.  Most terminals support the
     colours black, red, green, yellow, blue, magenta, cyan and white,
     which can be set by name.  In addition.  default may be used to set
     the terminal's default foreground colour.  Abbreviations are
     allowed; b or bl selects black.  Some terminals may generate
     additional colours if the bold attribute is also present.

     On recent terminals and on systems with an up-to-date terminal
     database the number of colours supported may be tested by the
     command 'echotc Co'; if this succeeds, it indicates a limit on the
     number of colours which will be enforced by the line editor.  The
     number of colours is in any case limited to 256 (i.e.  the range 0
     to 255).

     Some modern terminal emulators have support for 24-bit true colour
     (16 million colours).  In this case, the hex triplet format can be
     used.  This consists of either a three or six digit hexadecimal
     number describing the red, green and blue components of the colour.
     Hex triplets can also be used with 88 and 256 colour terminals via
     the zsh/nearcolor module (see *note The zsh/nearcolor Module::).

     Colour is also known as color.

bg=COLOUR
     The background colour should be set to COLOUR.  This works
     similarly to the foreground colour, except the background is not
     usually affected by the bold attribute.

bold
     The characters in the given context are shown in a bold font.  Not
     all terminals distinguish bold fonts.

standout
     The characters in the given context are shown in the terminal's
     standout mode.  The actual effect is specific to the terminal; on
     many terminals it is inverse video.  On some such terminals, where
     the cursor does not blink it appears with standout mode negated,
     making it less than clear where the cursor actually is.  On such
     terminals one of the other effects may be preferable for
     highlighting the region and matched search string.

underline
     The characters in the given context are shown underlined.  Some
     terminals show the foreground in a different colour instead; in
     this case whitespace will not be highlighted.

The characters described above as 'special' are as follows.  The
formatting described here is used irrespective of whether the characters
are highlighted:

ASCII control characters
     Control characters in the ASCII range are shown as '^' followed by
     the base character.

Unprintable multibyte characters
     This item applies to control characters not in the ASCII range,
     plus other characters as follows.  If the MULTIBYTE option is in
     effect, multibyte characters not in the ASCII character set that
     are reported as having zero width are treated as combining
     characters when the option COMBINING_CHARS is on.  If the option is
     off, or if a character appears where a combining character is not
     valid, the character is treated as unprintable.

     Unprintable multibyte characters are shown as a hexadecimal number
     between angle brackets.  The number is the code point of the
     character in the wide character set; this may or may not be
     Unicode, depending on the operating system.

Invalid multibyte characters
     If the MULTIBYTE option is in effect, any sequence of one or more
     bytes that does not form a valid character in the current character
     set is treated as a series of bytes each shown as a special
     character.  This case can be distinguished from other unprintable
     characters as the bytes are represented as two hexadecimal digits
     between angle brackets, as distinct from the four or eight digits
     that are used for unprintable characters that are nonetheless valid
     in the current character set.

     Not all systems support this: for it to work, the system's
     representation of wide characters must be code values from the
     Universal Character Set, as defined by IS0 10646 (also known as
     Unicode).

Wrapped double-width characters
     When a double-width character appears in the final column of a
     line, it is instead shown on the next line.  The empty space left
     in the original position is highlighted as a special character.

If zle_highlight is not set or no value applies to a particular context,
the defaults applied are equivalent to

     zle_highlight=(region:standout special:standout
     suffix:bold isearch:underline paste:standout)

i.e.  both the region and special characters are shown in standout mode.

Within widgets, arbitrary regions may be highlighted by setting the
special array parameter region_highlight; see *note Zle Widgets::.


File: zsh.info,  Node: Completion Widgets,  Next: Completion System,  Prev: Zsh Line Editor,  Up: Top

