19.2 Completion Special Parameters
==================================


The parameters ZLE_REMOVE_SUFFIX_CHARS and ZLE_SPACE_SUFFIX_CHARS are
used by the completion mechanism, but are not special.  See *note
Parameters Used By The Shell::.

Inside completion widgets, and any functions called from them, some
parameters have special meaning; outside these functions they are not
special to the shell in any way.  These parameters are used to pass
information between the completion code and the completion widget.  Some
of the builtin commands and the condition codes use or change the
current values of these parameters.  Any existing values will be hidden
during execution of completion widgets; except for compstate, the
parameters are reset on each function exit (including nested function
calls from within the completion widget) to the values they had when the
function was entered.

CURRENT
     This is the number of the current word, i.e.  the word the cursor
     is currently on in the words array.  Note that this value is only
     correct if the ksharrays option is not set.

IPREFIX
     Initially this will be set to the empty string.  This parameter
     functions like PREFIX; it contains a string which precedes the one
     in PREFIX and is not considered part of the list of matches.
     Typically, a string is transferred from the beginning of PREFIX to
     the end of IPREFIX, for example:

          IPREFIX=${PREFIX%%\=*}=
          PREFIX=${PREFIX#*=}

     causes the part of the prefix up to and including the first equal
     sign not to be treated as part of a matched string.  This can be
     done automatically by the compset builtin, see below.

ISUFFIX
     As IPREFIX, but for a suffix that should not be considered part of
     the matches; note that the ISUFFIX string follows the SUFFIX
     string.

PREFIX
     Initially this will be set to the part of the current word from the
     beginning of the word up to the position of the cursor; it may be
     altered to give a common prefix for all matches.

QIPREFIX
     This parameter is read-only and contains the quoted string up to
     the word being completed.  E.g.  when completing '"foo', this
     parameter contains the double quote.  If the -q option of compset
     is used (see below), and the original string was '"foo bar' with
     the cursor on the 'bar', this parameter contains '"foo '.

QISUFFIX
     Like QIPREFIX, but containing the suffix.

SUFFIX
     Initially this will be set to the part of the current word from the
     cursor position to the end; it may be altered to give a common
     suffix for all matches.  It is most useful when the option
     COMPLETE_IN_WORD is set, as otherwise the whole word on the command
     line is treated as a prefix.

compstate
     This is an associative array with various keys and values that the
     completion code uses to exchange information with the completion
     widget.  The keys are:

     all_quotes
          The -q option of the compset builtin command (see below)
          allows a quoted string to be broken into separate words; if
          the cursor is on one of those words, that word will be
          completed, possibly invoking 'compset -q' recursively.  With
          this key it is possible to test the types of quoted strings
          which are currently broken into parts in this fashion.  Its
          value contains one character for each quoting level.  The
          characters are a single quote or a double quote for strings
          quoted with these characters, a dollars sign for strings
          quoted with $'...' and a backslash for strings not starting
          with a quote character.  The first character in the value
          always corresponds to the innermost quoting level.

     context
          This will be set by the completion code to the overall context
          in which completion is attempted.  Possible values are:

          array_value
               when completing inside the value of an array parameter
               assignment; in this case the words array contains the
               words inside the parentheses.

          brace_parameter
               when completing the name of a parameter in a parameter
               expansion beginning with ${.  This context will also be
               set when completing parameter flags following ${(; the
               full command line argument is presented and the handler
               must test the value to be completed to ascertain that
               this is the case.

          assign_parameter
               when completing the name of a parameter in a parameter
               assignment.

          command
               when completing for a normal command (either in command
               position or for an argument of the command).

          condition
               when completing inside a '[[...]]'  conditional
               expression; in this case the words array contains only
               the words inside the conditional expression.

          math
               when completing in a mathematical environment such as a
               '((...))'  construct.

          parameter
               when completing the name of a parameter in a parameter
               expansion beginning with $ but not ${.

          redirect
               when completing after a redirection operator.

          subscript
               when completing inside a parameter subscript.

          value
               when completing the value of a parameter assignment.

     exact
          Controls the behaviour when the REC_EXACT option is set.  It
          will be set to accept if an exact match would be accepted, and
          will be unset otherwise.

          If it was set when at least one match equal to the string on
          the line was generated, the match is accepted.

     exact_string
          The string of an exact match if one was found, otherwise
          unset.

     ignored
          The number of words that were ignored because they matched one
          of the patterns given with the -F option to the compadd
          builtin command.

     insert
          This controls the manner in which a match is inserted into the
          command line.  On entry to the widget function, if it is unset
          the command line is not to be changed; if set to unambiguous,
          any prefix common to all matches is to be inserted; if set to
          automenu-unambiguous, the common prefix is to be inserted and
          the next invocation of the completion code may start menu
          completion (due to the AUTO_MENU option being set); if set to
          menu or automenu menu completion will be started for the
          matches currently generated (in the latter case this will
          happen because the AUTO_MENU is set).  The value may also
          contain the string 'tab' when the completion code would
          normally not really do completion, but only insert the TAB
          character.

          On exit it may be set to any of the values above (where
          setting it to the empty string is the same as unsetting it),
          or to a number, in which case the match whose number is given
          will be inserted into the command line.  Negative numbers
          count backward from the last match (with '-1' selecting the
          last match) and out-of-range values are wrapped around, so
          that a value of zero selects the last match and a value one
          more than the maximum selects the first.  Unless the value of
          this key ends in a space, the match is inserted as in a menu
          completion, i.e.  without automatically appending a space.

          Both menu and automenu may also specify the number of the
          match to insert, given after a colon.  For example, 'menu:2'
          says to start menu completion, beginning with the second
          match.

          Note that a value containing the substring 'tab' makes the
          matches generated be ignored and only the TAB be inserted.

          Finally, it may also be set to all, which makes all matches
          generated be inserted into the line.

     insert_positions
          When the completion system inserts an unambiguous string into
          the line, there may be multiple places where characters are
          missing or where the character inserted differs from at least
          one match.  The value of this key contains a colon separated
          list of all these positions, as indexes into the command line.

     last_prompt
          If this is set to a non-empty string for every match added,
          the completion code will move the cursor back to the previous
          prompt after the list of completions has been displayed.
          Initially this is set or unset according to the
          ALWAYS_LAST_PROMPT option.

     list
          This controls whether or how the list of matches will be
          displayed.  If it is unset or empty they will never be listed;
          if its value begins with list, they will always be listed; if
          it begins with autolist or ambiguous, they will be listed when
          the AUTO_LIST or LIST_AMBIGUOUS options respectively would
          normally cause them to be.

          If the substring force appears in the value, this makes the
          list be shown even if there is only one match.  Normally, the
          list would be shown only if there are at least two matches.

          The value contains the substring packed if the LIST_PACKED
          option is set.  If this substring is given for all matches
          added to a group, this group will show the LIST_PACKED
          behavior.  The same is done for the LIST_ROWS_FIRST option
          with the substring rows.

          Finally, if the value contains the string explanations, only
          the explanation strings, if any, will be listed and if it
          contains messages, only the messages (added with the -x option
          of compadd) will be listed.  If it contains both explanations
          and messages both kinds of explanation strings will be listed.
          It will be set appropriately on entry to a completion widget
          and may be changed there.

     list_lines
          This gives the number of lines that are needed to display the
          full list of completions.  Note that to calculate the total
          number of lines to display you need to add the number of lines
          needed for the command line to this value, this is available
          as the value of the BUFFERLINES special parameter.

     list_max
          Initially this is set to the value of the LISTMAX parameter.
          It may be set to any other value; when the widget exits this
          value will be used in the same way as the value of LISTMAX.

     nmatches
          The number of matches generated and accepted by the completion
          code so far.

     old_insert
          On entry to the widget this will be set to the number of the
          match of an old list of completions that is currently inserted
          into the command line.  If no match has been inserted, this is
          unset.

          As with old_list, the value of this key will only be used if
          it is the string keep.  If it was set to this value by the
          widget and there was an old match inserted into the command
          line, this match will be kept and if the value of the insert
          key specifies that another match should be inserted, this will
          be inserted after the old one.

     old_list
          This is set to yes if there is still a valid list of
          completions from a previous completion at the time the widget
          is invoked.  This will usually be the case if and only if the
          previous editing operation was a completion widget or one of
          the builtin completion functions.  If there is a valid list
          and it is also currently shown on the screen, the value of
          this key is shown.

          After the widget has exited the value of this key is only used
          if it was set to keep.  In this case the completion code will
          continue to use this old list.  If the widget generated new
          matches, they will not be used.

     parameter
          The name of the parameter when completing in a subscript or in
          the value of a parameter assignment.

     pattern_insert
          Normally this is set to menu, which specifies that menu
          completion will be used whenever a set of matches was
          generated using pattern matching.  If it is set to any other
          non-empty string by the user and menu completion is not
          selected by other option settings, the code will instead
          insert any common prefix for the generated matches as with
          normal completion.

     pattern_match
          Locally controls the behaviour given by the GLOB_COMPLETE
          option.  Initially it is set to '*' if and only if the option
          is set.  The completion widget may set it to this value, to an
          empty string (which has the same effect as unsetting it), or
          to any other non-empty string.  If it is non-empty, unquoted
          metacharacters on the command line will be treated as
          patterns; if it is '*', then additionally a wildcard '*' is
          assumed at the cursor position; if it is empty or unset,
          metacharacters will be treated literally.

          Note that the matcher specifications given to the compadd
          builtin command are not used if this is set to a non-empty
          string.

     quote
          When completing inside quotes, this contains the quotation
          character (i.e.  either a single quote, a double quote, or a
          backtick).  Otherwise it is unset.

     quoting
          When completing inside single quotes, this is set to the
          string single; inside double quotes, the string double; inside
          backticks, the string backtick.  Otherwise it is unset.

     redirect
          The redirection operator when completing in a redirection
          position, i.e.  one of <, >, etc.

     restore
          This is set to auto before a function is entered, which forces
          the special parameters mentioned above (words, CURRENT,
          PREFIX, IPREFIX, SUFFIX, and ISUFFIX) to be restored to their
          previous values when the function exits.  If a function unsets
          it or sets it to any other string, they will not be restored.

     to_end
          Specifies the occasions on which the cursor is moved to the
          end of a string when a match is inserted.  On entry to a
          widget function, it may be single if this will happen when a
          single unambiguous match was inserted or match if it will
          happen any time a match is inserted (for example, by menu
          completion; this is likely to be the effect of the
          ALWAYS_TO_END option).

          On exit, it may be set to single as above.  It may also be set
          to always, or to the empty string or unset; in those cases the
          cursor will be moved to the end of the string always or never
          respectively.  Any other string is treated as match.

     unambiguous
          This key is read-only and will always be set to the common
          (unambiguous) prefix the completion code has generated for all
          matches added so far.

     unambiguous_cursor
          This gives the position the cursor would be placed at if the
          common prefix in the unambiguous key were inserted, relative
          to the value of that key.  The cursor would be placed before
          the character whose index is given by this key.

     unambiguous_positions
          This contains all positions where characters in the
          unambiguous string are missing or where the character inserted
          differs from at least one of the matches.  The positions are
          given as indexes into the string given by the value of the
          unambiguous key.

     vared
          If completion is called while editing a line using the vared
          builtin, the value of this key is set to the name of the
          parameter given as an argument to vared.  This key is only set
          while a vared command is active.

words
     This array contains the words present on the command line currently
     being edited.


File: zsh.info,  Node: Completion Builtin Commands,  Next: Completion Condition Codes,  Prev: Completion Special Parameters,  Up: Completion Widgets

