21.4 Option Flags
=================

[ -fcFBdeaRGovNAIOPZEnbjrzu/12 ]
[ -k ARRAY ] [ -g GLOBSTRING ] [ -s SUBSTSTRING ]
[ -K FUNCTION ]
[ -Q ] [ -P PREFIX ] [ -S SUFFIX ]
[ -W FILE-PREFIX ] [ -H NUM PATTERN ]
[ -q ] [ -X EXPLANATION ] [ -Y EXPLANATION ]
[ -y FUNC-OR-VAR ] [ -l CMD ] [ -h CMD ] [ -U ]
[ -t CONTINUE ] [ -J NAME ] [ -V NAME ]
[ -M MATCH-SPEC ]

The remaining OPTIONS specify the type of command arguments to look for
during completion.  Any combination of these flags may be specified; the
result is a sorted list of all the possibilities.  The options are as
follows.
* Menu:

* Simple Flags::
* Flags with Arguments::
* Control Flags::


File: zsh.info,  Node: Simple Flags,  Next: Flags with Arguments,  Up: Option Flags

21.4.1 Simple Flags
-------------------

These produce completion lists made up by the shell itself:

-f
     Filenames and file system paths.

-/
     Just file system paths.

-c
     Command names, including aliases, shell functions, builtins and
     reserved words.

-F
     Function names.

-B
     Names of builtin commands.

-m
     Names of external commands.

-w
     Reserved words.

-a
     Alias names.

-R
     Names of regular (non-global) aliases.

-G
     Names of global aliases.

-d
     This can be combined with -F, -B, -w, -a, -R and -G to get names of
     disabled functions, builtins, reserved words or aliases.

-e
     This option (to show enabled commands) is in effect by default, but
     may be combined with -d; -de in combination with -F, -B, -w, -a, -R
     and -G will complete names of functions, builtins, reserved words
     or aliases whether or not they are disabled.

-o
     Names of shell options (see *note Options::).

-v
     Names of any variable defined in the shell.

-N
     Names of scalar (non-array) parameters.

-A
     Array names.

-I
     Names of integer variables.

-O
     Names of read-only variables.

-p
     Names of parameters used by the shell (including special
     parameters).

-Z
     Names of shell special parameters.

-E
     Names of environment variables.

-n
     Named directories.

-b
     Key binding names.

-j
     Job names: the first word of the job leader's command line.  This
     is useful with the kill builtin.

-r
     Names of running jobs.

-z
     Names of suspended jobs.

-u
     User names.


File: zsh.info,  Node: Flags with Arguments,  Next: Control Flags,  Prev: Simple Flags,  Up: Option Flags

21.4.2 Flags with Arguments
---------------------------

These have user supplied arguments to determine how the list of
completions is to be made up:

-k ARRAY
     Names taken from the elements of $ARRAY (note that the '$' does not
     appear on the command line).  Alternatively, the argument ARRAY
     itself may be a set of space- or comma-separated values in
     parentheses, in which any delimiter may be escaped with a
     backslash; in this case the argument should be quoted.  For
     example,

          compctl -k "(cputime filesize datasize stacksize
          	       coredumpsize resident descriptors)" limit

-g GLOBSTRING
     The GLOBSTRING is expanded using filename globbing; it should be
     quoted to protect it from immediate expansion.  The resulting
     filenames are taken as the possible completions.  Use '*(/)'
     instead of '*/' for directories.  The fignore special parameter is
     not applied to the resulting files.  More than one pattern may be
     given separated by blanks.  (Note that brace expansion is _not_
     part of globbing.  Use the syntax '(either|or)' to match
     alternatives.)

-s SUBSTSTRING
     The SUBSTSTRING is split into words and these words are than
     expanded using all shell expansion mechanisms (see *note
     Expansion::).  The resulting words are taken as possible
     completions.  The fignore special parameter is not applied to the
     resulting files.  Note that -g is faster for filenames.

-K FUNCTION
     Call the given function to get the completions.  Unless the name
     starts with an underscore, the function is passed two arguments:
     the prefix and the suffix of the word on which completion is to be
     attempted, in other words those characters before the cursor
     position, and those from the cursor position onwards.  The whole
     command line can be accessed with the -c and -l flags of the read
     builtin.  The function should set the variable reply to an array
     containing the completions (one completion per element); note that
     reply should not be made local to the function.  From such a
     function the command line can be accessed with the -c and -l flags
     to the read builtin.  For example,

          function whoson { reply=(`users`); }
          compctl -K whoson talk

     completes only logged-on users after 'talk'.  Note that 'whoson'
     must return an array, so 'reply=`users`' would be incorrect.

-H NUM PATTERN
     The possible completions are taken from the last NUM history lines.
     Only words matching PATTERN are taken.  If NUM is zero or negative
     the whole history is searched and if PATTERN is the empty string
     all words are taken (as with '*').  A typical use is

          compctl -D -f + -H 0 ''

     which forces completion to look back in the history list for a word
     if no filename matches.


File: zsh.info,  Node: Control Flags,  Prev: Flags with Arguments,  Up: Option Flags

21.4.3 Control Flags
--------------------

These do not directly specify types of name to be completed, but
manipulate the options that do:

-Q
     This instructs the shell not to quote any metacharacters in the
     possible completions.  Normally the results of a completion are
     inserted into the command line with any metacharacters quoted so
     that they are interpreted as normal characters.  This is
     appropriate for filenames and ordinary strings.  However, for
     special effects, such as inserting a backquoted expression from a
     completion array (-k) so that the expression will not be evaluated
     until the complete line is executed, this option must be used.

-P PREFIX
     The PREFIX is inserted just before the completed string; any
     initial part already typed will be completed and the whole PREFIX
     ignored for completion purposes.  For example,

          compctl -j -P "%" kill

     inserts a '%' after the kill command and then completes job names.

-S SUFFIX
     When a completion is found the SUFFIX is inserted after the
     completed string.  In the case of menu completion the suffix is
     inserted immediately, but it is still possible to cycle through the
     list of completions by repeatedly hitting the same key.

-W FILE-PREFIX
     With directory FILE-PREFIX: for command, file, directory and
     globbing completion (options -c, -f, -/, -g), the file prefix is
     implicitly added in front of the completion.  For example,

          compctl -/ -W ~/Mail maildirs

     completes any subdirectories to any depth beneath the directory
     ~/Mail, although that prefix does not appear on the command line.
     The FILE-PREFIX may also be of the form accepted by the -k flag,
     i.e.  the name of an array or a literal list in parenthesis.  In
     this case all the directories in the list will be searched for
     possible completions.

-q
     If used with a suffix as specified by the -S option, this causes
     the suffix to be removed if the next character typed is a blank or
     does not insert anything or if the suffix consists of only one
     character and the next character typed is the same character; this
     the same rule used for the AUTO_REMOVE_SLASH option.  The option is
     most useful for list separators (comma, colon, etc.).

-l CMD
     This option restricts the range of command line words that are
     considered to be arguments.  If combined with one of the extended
     completion patterns 'p[...]', 'r[...]', or 'R[...]'  (see *note
     Extended Completion:: below) the range is restricted to the range
     of arguments specified in the brackets.  Completion is then
     performed as if these had been given as arguments to the CMD
     supplied with the option.  If the CMD string is empty the first
     word in the range is instead taken as the command name, and command
     name completion performed on the first word in the range.  For
     example,

          compctl -x 'r[-exec,;]' -l '' -- find

     completes arguments between '-exec' and the following ';' (or the
     end of the command line if there is no such string) as if they were
     a separate command line.

-h CMD
     Normally zsh completes quoted strings as a whole.  With this
     option, completion can be done separately on different parts of
     such strings.  It works like the -l option but makes the completion
     code work on the parts of the current word that are separated by
     spaces.  These parts are completed as if they were arguments to the
     given CMD.  If CMD is the empty string, the first part is completed
     as a command name, as with -l.

-U
     Use the whole list of possible completions, whether or not they
     actually match the word on the command line.  The word typed so far
     will be deleted.  This is most useful with a function (given by the
     -K option) which can examine the word components passed to it (or
     via the read builtin's -c and -l flags) and use its own criteria to
     decide what matches.  If there is no completion, the original word
     is retained.  Since the produced possible completions seldom have
     interesting common prefixes and suffixes, menu completion is
     started immediately if AUTO_MENU is set and this flag is used.

-y FUNC-OR-VAR
     The list provided by FUNC-OR-VAR is displayed instead of the list
     of completions whenever a listing is required; the actual
     completions to be inserted are not affected.  It can be provided in
     two ways.  Firstly, if FUNC-OR-VAR begins with a $ it defines a
     variable, or if it begins with a left parenthesis a literal array,
     which contains the list.  A variable may have been set by a call to
     a function using the -K option.  Otherwise it contains the name of
     a function which will be executed to create the list.  The function
     will be passed as an argument list all matching completions,
     including prefixes and suffixes expanded in full, and should set
     the array reply to the result.  In both cases, the display list
     will only be retrieved after a complete list of matches has been
     created.

     Note that the returned list does not have to correspond, even in
     length, to the original set of matches, and may be passed as a
     scalar instead of an array.  No special formatting of characters is
     performed on the output in this case; in particular, newlines are
     printed literally and if they appear output in columns is
     suppressed.

-X EXPLANATION
     Print EXPLANATION when trying completion on the current set of
     options.  A '%n' in this string is replaced by the number of
     matches that were added for this explanation string.  The
     explanation only appears if completion was tried and there was no
     unique match, or when listing completions.  Explanation strings
     will be listed together with the matches of the group specified
     together with the -X option (using the -J or -V option).  If the
     same explanation string is given to multiple -X options, the string
     appears only once (for each group) and the number of matches shown
     for the '%n' is the total number of all matches for each of these
     uses.  In any case, the explanation string will only be shown if
     there was at least one match added for the explanation string.

     The sequences %B, %b, %S, %s, %U, and %u specify output attributes
     (bold, standout, and underline), %F, %f, %K, %k specify foreground
     and background colours, and %{...%} can be used to include literal
     escape sequences as in prompts.

-Y EXPLANATION
     Identical to -X, except that the EXPLANATION first undergoes
     expansion following the usual rules for strings in double quotes.
     The expansion will be carried out after any functions are called
     for the -K or -y options, allowing them to set variables.

-t CONTINUE
     The CONTINUE-string contains a character that specifies which set
     of completion flags should be used next.  It is useful:

     (i) With -T, or when trying a list of pattern completions, when
     compctl would usually continue with ordinary processing after
     finding matches; this can be suppressed with '-tn'.

     (ii) With a list of alternatives separated by +, when compctl would
     normally stop when one of the alternatives generates matches.  It
     can be forced to consider the next set of completions by adding
     '-t+' to the flags of the alternative before the '+'.

     (iii) In an extended completion list (see below), when compctl
     would normally continue until a set of conditions succeeded, then
     use only the immediately following flags.  With '-t-', compctl will
     continue trying extended completions after the next '-'; with '-tx'
     it will attempt completion with the default flags, in other words
     those before the '-x'.

-J NAME
     This gives the name of the group the matches should be placed in.
     Groups are listed and sorted separately; likewise, menu completion
     will offer the matches in the groups in the order in which the
     groups were defined.  If no group name is explicitly given, the
     matches are stored in a group named default.  The first time a
     group name is encountered, a group with that name is created.
     After that all matches with the same group name are stored in that
     group.

     This can be useful with non-exclusive alternative completions.  For
     example, in

          compctl -f -J files -t+ + -v -J variables foo

     both files and variables are possible completions, as the -t+
     forces both sets of alternatives before and after the + to be
     considered at once.  Because of the -J options, however, all files
     are listed before all variables.

-V NAME
     Like -J, but matches within the group will not be sorted in
     listings nor in menu completion.  These unsorted groups are in a
     different name space from the sorted ones, so groups defined as -J
     files and -V files are distinct.

-1
     If given together with the -V option, makes only consecutive
     duplicates in the group be removed.  Note that groups with and
     without this flag are in different name spaces.

-2
     If given together with the -J or -V option, makes all duplicates be
     kept.  Again, groups with and without this flag are in different
     name spaces.

-M MATCH-SPEC
     This defines additional matching control specifications that should
     be used only when testing words for the list of flags this flag
     appears in.  The format of the MATCH-SPEC string is described in
     *note Completion Matching Control::.


File: zsh.info,  Node: Alternative Completion,  Next: Extended Completion,  Prev: Option Flags,  Up: Completion Using compctl

