22.7 The zsh/complist Module
============================


   The zsh/complist module offers three extensions to completion
listings: the ability to highlight matches in such a list, the ability
to scroll through long lists and a different style of menu completion.


22.7.1 Colored completion listings
----------------------------------

Whenever one of the parameters ZLS_COLORS or ZLS_COLOURS is set and the
zsh/complist module is loaded or linked into the shell, completion lists
will be colored.  Note, however, that complist will not automatically be
loaded if it is not linked in: on systems with dynamic loading,
'zmodload zsh/complist' is required.

The parameters ZLS_COLORS and ZLS_COLOURS describe how matches are
highlighted.  To turn on highlighting an empty value suffices, in which
case all the default values given below will be used.  The format of the
value of these parameters is the same as used by the GNU version of the
ls command: a colon-separated list of specifications of the form
'NAME=VALUE'.  The NAME may be one of the following strings, most of
which specify file types for which the VALUE will be used.  The strings
and their default values are:

no 0
     for normal text (i.e.  when displaying something other than a
     matched file)

fi 0
     for regular files

di 32
     for directories

ln 36
     for symbolic links.  If this has the special value target, symbolic
     links are dereferenced and the target file used to determine the
     display format.

pi 31
     for named pipes (FIFOs)

so 33
     for sockets

bd 44;37
     for block devices

cd 44;37
     for character devices

or NONE
     for a symlink to nonexistent file (default is the value defined for
     ln)

mi NONE
     for a non-existent file (default is the value defined for fi); this
     code is currently not used

su 37;41
     for files with setuid bit set

sg 30;43
     for files with setgid bit set

tw 30;42
     for world writable directories with sticky bit set

ow 34;43
     for world writable directories without sticky bit set

sa NONE
     for files with an associated suffix alias; this is only tested
     after specific suffixes, as described below

st 37;44
     for directories with sticky bit set but not world writable

ex 35
     for executable files

lc \e[
     for the left code (see below)

rc m
     for the right code

tc 0
     for the character indicating the file type printed after filenames
     if the LIST_TYPES option is set

sp 0
     for the spaces printed after matches to align the next column

ec NONE
     for the end code

Apart from these strings, the NAME may also be an asterisk ('*')
followed by any string.  The VALUE given for such a string will be used
for all files whose name ends with the string.  The NAME may also be an
equals sign ('=') followed by a pattern; the EXTENDED_GLOB option will
be turned on for evaluation of the pattern.  The VALUE given for this
pattern will be used for all matches (not just filenames) whose display
string are matched by the pattern.  Definitions for the form with the
leading equal sign take precedence over the values defined for file
types, which in turn take precedence over the form with the leading
asterisk (file extensions).

The leading-equals form also allows different parts of the displayed
strings to be colored differently.  For this, the pattern has to use the
'(#b)' globbing flag and pairs of parentheses surrounding the parts of
the strings that are to be colored differently.  In this case the VALUE
may consist of more than one color code separated by equal signs.  The
first code will be used for all parts for which no explicit code is
specified and the following codes will be used for the parts matched by
the sub-patterns in parentheses.  For example, the specification
'=(#b)(?)*(?)=0=3=7' will be used for all matches which are at least two
characters long and will use the code '3' for the first character, '7'
for the last character and '0' for the rest.

All three forms of NAME may be preceded by a pattern in parentheses.  If
this is given, the VALUE will be used only for matches in groups whose
names are matched by the pattern given in the parentheses.  For example,
'(g*)m*=43' highlights all matches beginning with 'm' in groups whose
names begin with 'g' using the color code '43'.  In case of the 'lc',
'rc', and 'ec' codes, the group pattern is ignored.

Note also that all patterns are tried in the order in which they appear
in the parameter value until the first one matches which is then used.
Patterns may be matched against completions, descriptions (possibly with
spaces appended for padding), or lines consisting of a completion
followed by a description.  For consistent coloring it may be necessary
to use more than one pattern or a pattern with backreferences.

When printing a match, the code prints the value of lc, the value for
the file-type or the last matching specification with a '*', the value
of rc, the string to display for the match itself, and then the value of
ec if that is defined or the values of lc, no, and rc if ec is not
defined.

The default values are ISO 6429 (ANSI) compliant and can be used on
vt100 compatible terminals such as xterms.  On monochrome terminals the
default values will have no visible effect.  The colors function from
the contribution can be used to get associative arrays containing the
codes for ANSI terminals (see *note Other Functions::).  For example,
after loading colors, one could use '$color[red]' to get the code for
foreground color red and '$color[bg-green]' for the code for background
color green.

If the completion system invoked by compinit is used, these parameters
should not be set directly because the system controls them itself.
Instead, the list-colors style should be used (see *note Completion
System Configuration::).


22.7.2 Scrolling in completion listings
---------------------------------------

To enable scrolling through a completion list, the LISTPROMPT parameter
must be set.  Its value will be used as the prompt; if it is the empty
string, a default prompt will be used.  The value may contain escapes of
the form '%x'.  It supports the escapes '%B', '%b', '%S', '%s', '%U',
'%u', '%F', '%f', '%K', '%k' and '%{...%}' used also in shell prompts as
well as three pairs of additional sequences: a '%l' or '%L' is replaced
by the number of the last line shown and the total number of lines in
the form 'NUMBER/TOTAL'; a '%m' or '%M' is replaced with the number of
the last match shown and the total number of matches; and '%p' or '%P'
is replaced with 'Top', 'Bottom' or the position of the first line shown
in percent of the total number of lines, respectively.  In each of these
cases the form with the uppercase letter will be replaced with a string
of fixed width, padded to the right with spaces, while the lowercase
form will not be padded.

If the parameter LISTPROMPT is set, the completion code will not ask if
the list should be shown.  Instead it immediately starts displaying the
list, stopping after the first screenful, showing the prompt at the
bottom, waiting for a keypress after temporarily switching to the
listscroll keymap.  Some of the zle functions have a special meaning
while scrolling lists:

send-break
     stops listing discarding the key pressed

accept-line, down-history, down-line-or-history
down-line-or-search, vi-down-line-or-history
     scrolls forward one line

complete-word, menu-complete, expand-or-complete
expand-or-complete-prefix, menu-complete-or-expand
     scrolls forward one screenful

accept-search
     stop listing but take no other action

Every other character stops listing and immediately processes the key as
usual.  Any key that is not bound in the listscroll keymap or that is
bound to undefined-key is looked up in the keymap currently selected.

As for the ZLS_COLORS and ZLS_COLOURS parameters, LISTPROMPT should not
be set directly when using the shell function based completion system.
Instead, the list-prompt style should be used.


22.7.3 Menu selection
---------------------

The zsh/complist module also offers an alternative style of selecting
matches from a list, called menu selection, which can be used if the
shell is set up to return to the last prompt after showing a completion
list (see the ALWAYS_LAST_PROMPT option in *note Options::).

Menu selection can be invoked directly by the widget menu-select defined
by this module.  This is a standard ZLE widget that can be bound to a
key in the usual way as described in *note Zsh Line Editor::.

Alternatively, the parameter MENUSELECT can be set to an integer, which
gives the minimum number of matches that must be present before menu
selection is automatically turned on.  This second method requires that
menu completion be started, either directly from a widget such as
menu-complete, or due to one of the options MENU_COMPLETE or AUTO_MENU
being set.  If MENUSELECT is set, but is 0, 1 or empty, menu selection
will always be started during an ambiguous menu completion.

When using the completion system based on shell functions, the
MENUSELECT parameter should not be used (like the ZLS_COLORS and
ZLS_COLOURS parameters described above).  Instead, the menu style should
be used with the select=... keyword.

After menu selection is started, the matches will be listed.  If there
are more matches than fit on the screen, only the first screenful is
shown.  The matches to insert into the command line can be selected from
this list.  In the list one match is highlighted using the value for ma
from the ZLS_COLORS or ZLS_COLOURS parameter.  The default value for
this is '7' which forces the selected match to be highlighted using
standout mode on a vt100-compatible terminal.  If neither ZLS_COLORS nor
ZLS_COLOURS is set, the same terminal control sequence as for the '%S'
escape in prompts is used.

If there are more matches than fit on the screen and the parameter
MENUPROMPT is set, its value will be shown below the matches.  It
supports the same escape sequences as LISTPROMPT, but the number of the
match or line shown will be that of the one where the mark is placed.
If its value is the empty string, a default prompt will be used.

The MENUSCROLL parameter can be used to specify how the list is
scrolled.  If the parameter is unset, this is done line by line, if it
is set to '0' (zero), the list will scroll half the number of lines of
the screen.  If the value is positive, it gives the number of lines to
scroll and if it is negative, the list will be scrolled the number of
lines of the screen minus the (absolute) value.

As for the ZLS_COLORS, ZLS_COLOURS and LISTPROMPT parameters, neither
MENUPROMPT nor MENUSCROLL should be set directly when using the shell
function based completion system.  Instead, the select-prompt and
select-scroll styles should be used.

The completion code sometimes decides not to show all of the matches in
the list.  These hidden matches are either matches for which the
completion function which added them explicitly requested that they not
appear in the list (using the -n option of the compadd builtin command)
or they are matches which duplicate a string already in the list
(because they differ only in things like prefixes or suffixes that are
not displayed).  In the list used for menu selection, however, even
these matches are shown so that it is possible to select them.  To
highlight such matches the hi and du capabilities in the ZLS_COLORS and
ZLS_COLOURS parameters are supported for hidden matches of the first and
second kind, respectively.

Selecting matches is done by moving the mark around using the zle
movement functions.  When not all matches can be shown on the screen at
the same time, the list will scroll up and down when crossing the top or
bottom line.  The following zle functions have special meaning during
menu selection.  Note that the following always perform the same task
within the menu selection map and cannot be replaced by user defined
widgets, nor can the set of functions be extended:

accept-line, accept-search
     accept the current match and leave menu selection (but do not cause
     the command line to be accepted)

send-break
     leaves menu selection and restores the previous contents of the
     command line

redisplay, clear-screen
     execute their normal function without leaving menu selection

accept-and-hold, accept-and-menu-complete
     accept the currently inserted match and continue selection allowing
     to select the next match to insert into the line

accept-and-infer-next-history
     accepts the current match and then tries completion with menu
     selection again; in the case of files this allows one to select a
     directory and immediately attempt to complete files in it; if there
     are no matches, a message is shown and one can use undo to go back
     to completion on the previous level, every other key leaves menu
     selection (including the other zle functions which are otherwise
     special during menu selection)

undo
     removes matches inserted during the menu selection by one of the
     three functions before

down-history, down-line-or-history
vi-down-line-or-history, down-line-or-search
     moves the mark one line down

up-history, up-line-or-history
vi-up-line-or-history, up-line-or-search
     moves the mark one line up

forward-char, vi-forward-char
     moves the mark one column right

backward-char, vi-backward-char
     moves the mark one column left

forward-word, vi-forward-word
vi-forward-word-end, emacs-forward-word
     moves the mark one screenful down

backward-word, vi-backward-word, emacs-backward-word
     moves the mark one screenful up

vi-forward-blank-word, vi-forward-blank-word-end
     moves the mark to the first line of the next group of matches

vi-backward-blank-word
     moves the mark to the last line of the previous group of matches

beginning-of-history
     moves the mark to the first line

end-of-history
     moves the mark to the last line

beginning-of-buffer-or-history, beginning-of-line
beginning-of-line-hist, vi-beginning-of-line
     moves the mark to the leftmost column

end-of-buffer-or-history, end-of-line
end-of-line-hist, vi-end-of-line
     moves the mark to the rightmost column

complete-word, menu-complete, expand-or-complete
expand-or-complete-prefix, menu-expand-or-complete
     moves the mark to the next match

reverse-menu-complete
     moves the mark to the previous match

vi-insert
     this toggles between normal and interactive mode; in interactive
     mode the keys bound to self-insert and self-insert-unmeta insert
     into the command line as in normal editing mode but without leaving
     menu selection; after each character completion is tried again and
     the list changes to contain only the new matches; the completion
     widgets make the longest unambiguous string be inserted in the
     command line and undo and backward-delete-char go back to the
     previous set of matches

history-incremental-search-forward
history-incremental-search-backward
     this starts incremental searches in the list of completions
     displayed; in this mode, accept-line only leaves incremental
     search, going back to the normal menu selection mode

All movement functions wrap around at the edges; any other zle function
not listed leaves menu selection and executes that function.  It is
possible to make widgets in the above list do the same by using the form
of the widget with a '.' in front.  For example, the widget
'.accept-line' has the effect of leaving menu selection and accepting
the entire command line.

During this selection the widget uses the keymap menuselect.  Any key
that is not defined in this keymap or that is bound to undefined-key is
looked up in the keymap currently selected.  This is used to ensure that
the most important keys used during selection (namely the cursor keys,
return, and TAB) have sensible defaults.  However, keys in the
menuselect keymap can be modified directly using the bindkey builtin
command (see *note The zsh/zle Module::).  For example, to make the
return key leave menu selection without accepting the match currently
selected one could call

     bindkey -M menuselect '^M' send-break

after loading the zsh/complist module.

File: zsh.info,  Node: The zsh/computil Module,  Next: The zsh/curses Module,  Prev: The zsh/complist Module,  Up: Zsh Modules

