22.20 The zsh/parameter Module
==============================


   The zsh/parameter module gives access to some of the internal hash
tables used by the shell by defining some special parameters.

options
     The keys for this associative array are the names of the options
     that can be set and unset using the setopt and unsetopt builtins.
     The value of each key is either the string on if the option is
     currently set, or the string off if the option is unset.  Setting a
     key to one of these strings is like setting or unsetting the
     option, respectively.  Unsetting a key in this array is like
     setting it to the value off.

commands
     This array gives access to the command hash table.  The keys are
     the names of external commands, the values are the pathnames of the
     files that would be executed when the command would be invoked.
     Setting a key in this array defines a new entry in this table in
     the same way as with the hash builtin.  Unsetting a key as in
     'unset "commands[foo]"' removes the entry for the given key from
     the command hash table.

functions
     This associative array maps names of enabled functions to their
     definitions.  Setting a key in it is like defining a function with
     the name given by the key and the body given by the value.
     Unsetting a key removes the definition for the function named by
     the key.

dis_functions
     Like functions but for disabled functions.

functions_source
     This readonly associative array maps names of enabled functions to
     the name of the file containing the source of the function.

     For an autoloaded function that has already been loaded, or marked
     for autoload with an absolute path, or that has had its path
     resolved with 'functions -r', this is the file found for
     autoloading, resolved to an absolute path.

     For a function defined within the body of a script or sourced file,
     this is the name of that file.  In this case, this is the exact
     path originally used to that file, which may be a relative path.

     For any other function, including any defined at an interactive
     prompt or an autoload function whose path has not yet been
     resolved, this is the empty string.  However, the hash element is
     reported as defined just so long as the function is present: the
     keys to this hash are the same as those to $funcions.

dis_functions_source
     Like functions_source but for disabled functions.

builtins
     This associative array gives information about the builtin commands
     currently enabled.  The keys are the names of the builtin commands
     and the values are either 'undefined' for builtin commands that
     will automatically be loaded from a module if invoked or 'defined'
     for builtin commands that are already loaded.

dis_builtins
     Like builtins but for disabled builtin commands.

reswords
     This array contains the enabled reserved words.

dis_reswords
     Like reswords but for disabled reserved words.

patchars
     This array contains the enabled pattern characters.

dis_patchars
     Like patchars but for disabled pattern characters.

aliases
     This maps the names of the regular aliases currently enabled to
     their expansions.

dis_aliases
     Like aliases but for disabled regular aliases.

galiases
     Like aliases, but for global aliases.

dis_galiases
     Like galiases but for disabled global aliases.

saliases
     Like raliases, but for suffix aliases.

dis_saliases
     Like saliases but for disabled suffix aliases.

parameters
     The keys in this associative array are the names of the parameters
     currently defined.  The values are strings describing the type of
     the parameter, in the same format used by the t parameter flag, see
     *note Parameter Expansion:: .  Setting or unsetting keys in this
     array is not possible.

modules
     An associative array giving information about modules.  The keys
     are the names of the modules loaded, registered to be autoloaded,
     or aliased.  The value says which state the named module is in and
     is one of the strings 'loaded', 'autoloaded', or 'alias:NAME',
     where NAME is the name the module is aliased to.

     Setting or unsetting keys in this array is not possible.

dirstack
     A normal array holding the elements of the directory stack.  Note
     that the output of the dirs builtin command includes one more
     directory, the current working directory.

history
     This associative array maps history event numbers to the full
     history lines.  Although it is presented as an associative array,
     the array of all values (${history[@]}) is guaranteed to be
     returned in order from most recent to oldest history event, that
     is, by decreasing history event number.

historywords
     A special array containing the words stored in the history.  These
     also appear in most to least recent order.

jobdirs
     This associative array maps job numbers to the directories from
     which the job was started (which may not be the current directory
     of the job).

     The keys of the associative arrays are usually valid job numbers,
     and these are the values output with, for example, ${(k)jobdirs}.
     Non-numeric job references may be used when looking up a value; for
     example, ${jobdirs[%+]} refers to the current job.

jobtexts
     This associative array maps job numbers to the texts of the command
     lines that were used to start the jobs.

     Handling of the keys of the associative array is as described for
     jobdirs above.

jobstates
     This associative array gives information about the states of the
     jobs currently known.  The keys are the job numbers and the values
     are strings of the form 'JOB-STATE:MARK:PID=STATE...'.  The
     JOB-STATE gives the state the whole job is currently in, one of
     'running', 'suspended', or 'done'.  The MARK is '+' for the current
     job, '-' for the previous job and empty otherwise.  This is
     followed by one ':PID=STATE' for every process in the job.  The
     PIDs are, of course, the process IDs and the STATE describes the
     state of that process.

     Handling of the keys of the associative array is as described for
     jobdirs above.

nameddirs
     This associative array maps the names of named directories to the
     pathnames they stand for.

userdirs
     This associative array maps user names to the pathnames of their
     home directories.

usergroups
     This associative array maps names of system groups of which the
     current user is a member to the corresponding group identifiers.
     The contents are the same as the groups output by the id command.

funcfiletrace
     This array contains the absolute line numbers and corresponding
     file names for the point where the current function, sourced file,
     or (if EVAL_LINENO is set) eval command was called.  The array is
     of the same length as funcsourcetrace and functrace, but differs
     from funcsourcetrace in that the line and file are the point of
     call, not the point of definition, and differs from functrace in
     that all values are absolute line numbers in files, rather than
     relative to the start of a function, if any.

funcsourcetrace
     This array contains the file names and line numbers of the points
     where the functions, sourced files, and (if EVAL_LINENO is set)
     eval commands currently being executed were defined.  The line
     number is the line where the 'function NAME' or 'NAME ()' started.
     In the case of an autoloaded function the line number is reported
     as zero.  The format of each element is FILENAME:LINENO.

     For functions autoloaded from a file in native zsh format, where
     only the body of the function occurs in the file, or for files that
     have been executed by the source or '.' builtins, the trace
     information is shown as FILENAME:0, since the entire file is the
     definition.  The source file name is resolved to an absolute path
     when the function is loaded or the path to it otherwise resolved.

     Most users will be interested in the information in the
     funcfiletrace array instead.

funcstack
     This array contains the names of the functions, sourced files, and
     (if EVAL_LINENO is set) eval commands.  currently being executed.
     The first element is the name of the function using the parameter.

     The standard shell array zsh_eval_context can be used to determine
     the type of shell construct being executed at each depth: note,
     however, that is in the opposite order, with the most recent item
     last, and it is more detailed, for example including an entry for
     toplevel, the main shell code being executed either interactively
     or from a script, which is not present in $funcstack.

functrace
     This array contains the names and line numbers of the callers
     corresponding to the functions currently being executed.  The
     format of each element is NAME:LINENO.  Callers are also shown for
     sourced files; the caller is the point where the source or '.'
     command was executed.

File: zsh.info,  Node: The zsh/pcre Module,  Next: The zsh/param/private Module,  Prev: The zsh/parameter Module,  Up: Zsh Modules

