22.31 The zsh/zftp Module
=========================


   The zsh/zftp module makes available one builtin command:

zftp SUBCOMMAND [ ARGS ]
     The zsh/zftp module is a client for FTP (file transfer protocol).
     It is implemented as a builtin to allow full use of shell command
     line editing, file I/O, and job control mechanisms.  Often, users
     will access it via shell functions providing a more powerful
     interface; a set is provided with the zsh distribution and is
     described in *note Zftp Function System::.  However, the zftp
     command is entirely usable in its own right.

     All commands consist of the command name zftp followed by the name
     of a subcommand.  These are listed below.  The return status of
     each subcommand is supposed to reflect the success or failure of
     the remote operation.  See a description of the variable
     ZFTP_VERBOSE for more information on how responses from the server
     may be printed.


22.31.1 Subcommands
-------------------


open HOST[:PORT] [ USER [ PASSWORD [ ACCOUNT ] ] ]
     Open a new FTP session to HOST, which may be the name of a TCP/IP
     connected host or an IP number in the standard dot notation.  If
     the argument is in the form HOST:PORT, open a connection to TCP
     port PORT instead of the standard FTP port 21.  This may be the
     name of a TCP service or a number: see the description of ZFTP_PORT
     below for more information.

     If IPv6 addresses in colon format are used, the HOST should be
     surrounded by quoted square brackets to distinguish it from the
     PORT, for example '[fe80::203:baff:fe02:8b56]'.  For consistency
     this is allowed with all forms of HOST.

     Remaining arguments are passed to the login subcommand.  Note that
     if no arguments beyond HOST are supplied, open will _not_
     automatically call login.  If no arguments at all are supplied,
     open will use the parameters set by the params subcommand.

     After a successful open, the shell variables ZFTP_HOST, ZFTP_PORT,
     ZFTP_IP and ZFTP_SYSTEM are available; see 'Variables' below.

login [ NAME [ PASSWORD [ ACCOUNT ] ] ]
user [ NAME [ PASSWORD [ ACCOUNT ] ] ]
     Login the user NAME with parameters PASSWORD and ACCOUNT.  Any of
     the parameters can be omitted, and will be read from standard input
     if needed (NAME is always needed).  If standard input is a
     terminal, a prompt for each one will be printed on standard error
     and PASSWORD will not be echoed.  If any of the parameters are not
     used, a warning message is printed.

     After a successful login, the shell variables ZFTP_USER,
     ZFTP_ACCOUNT and ZFTP_PWD are available; see 'Variables' below.

     This command may be re-issued when a user is already logged in, and
     the server will first be reinitialized for a new user.

params [ HOST [ USER [ PASSWORD [ ACCOUNT ] ] ] ]
params -
     Store the given parameters for a later open command with no
     arguments.  Only those given on the command line will be
     remembered.  If no arguments are given, the parameters currently
     set are printed, although the password will appear as a line of
     stars; the return status is one if no parameters were set, zero
     otherwise.

     Any of the parameters may be specified as a '?', which may need to
     be quoted to protect it from shell expansion.  In this case, the
     appropriate parameter will be read from stdin as with the login
     subcommand, including special handling of PASSWORD.  If the '?' is
     followed by a string, that is used as the prompt for reading the
     parameter instead of the default message (any necessary punctuation
     and whitespace should be included at the end of the prompt).  The
     first letter of the parameter (only) may be quoted with a '\';
     hence an argument "\\$word" guarantees that the string from the
     shell parameter $word will be treated literally, whether or not it
     begins with a '?'.

     If instead a single '-' is given, the existing parameters, if any,
     are deleted.  In that case, calling open with no arguments will
     cause an error.

     The list of parameters is not deleted after a close, however it
     will be deleted if the zsh/zftp module is unloaded.

     For example,

          zftp params ftp.elsewhere.xx juser '?Password for juser: '

     will store the host ftp.elsewhere.xx and the user juser and then
     prompt the user for the corresponding password with the given
     prompt.

test
     Test the connection; if the server has reported that it has closed
     the connection (maybe due to a timeout), return status 2; if no
     connection was open anyway, return status 1; else return status 0.
     The test subcommand is silent, apart from messages printed by the
     $ZFTP_VERBOSE mechanism, or error messages if the connection
     closes.  There is no network overhead for this test.

     The test is only supported on systems with either the select(2) or
     poll(2) system calls; otherwise the message 'not supported on this
     system' is printed instead.

     The test subcommand will automatically be called at the start of
     any other subcommand for the current session when a connection is
     open.

cd DIRECTORY
     Change the remote directory to DIRECTORY.  Also alters the shell
     variable ZFTP_PWD.

cdup
     Change the remote directory to the one higher in the directory
     tree.  Note that cd .. will also work correctly on non-UNIX
     systems.

dir [ ARG ... ]
     Give a (verbose) listing of the remote directory.  The ARGs are
     passed directly to the server.  The command's behaviour is
     implementation dependent, but a UNIX server will typically
     interpret ARGs as arguments to the ls command and with no arguments
     return the result of 'ls -l'.  The directory is listed to standard
     output.

ls [ ARG ... ]
     Give a (short) listing of the remote directory.  With no ARG,
     produces a raw list of the files in the directory, one per line.
     Otherwise, up to vagaries of the server implementation, behaves
     similar to dir.

type [ TYPE ]
     Change the type for the transfer to TYPE, or print the current type
     if TYPE is absent.  The allowed values are 'A' (ASCII), 'I' (Image,
     i.e.  binary), or 'B' (a synonym for 'I').

     The FTP default for a transfer is ASCII. However, if zftp finds
     that the remote host is a UNIX machine with 8-bit byes, it will
     automatically switch to using binary for file transfers upon open.
     This can subsequently be overridden.

     The transfer type is only passed to the remote host when a data
     connection is established; this command involves no network
     overhead.

ascii
     The same as type A.

binary
     The same as type I.

mode [ S | B ]
     Set the mode type to stream (S) or block (B).  Stream mode is the
     default; block mode is not widely supported.

remote FILE ...
local [ FILE ... ]
     Print the size and last modification time of the remote or local
     files.  If there is more than one item on the list, the name of the
     file is printed first.  The first number is the file size, the
     second is the last modification time of the file in the format
     CCYYMMDDhhmmSS consisting of year, month, date, hour, minutes and
     seconds in GMT. Note that this format, including the length, is
     guaranteed, so that time strings can be directly compared via the
     [[ builtin's < and > operators, even if they are too long to be
     represented as integers.

     Not all servers support the commands for retrieving this
     information.  In that case, the remote command will print nothing
     and return status 2, compared with status 1 for a file not found.

     The local command (but not remote) may be used with no arguments,
     in which case the information comes from examining file descriptor
     zero.  This is the same file as seen by a put command with no
     further redirection.

get FILE ...
     Retrieve all FILEs from the server, concatenating them and sending
     them to standard output.

put FILE ...
     For each FILE, read a file from standard input and send that to the
     remote host with the given name.

append FILE ...
     As put, but if the remote FILE already exists, data is appended to
     it instead of overwriting it.

getat FILE POINT
putat FILE POINT
appendat FILE POINT
     Versions of get, put and append which will start the transfer at
     the given POINT in the remote FILE.  This is useful for appending
     to an incomplete local file.  However, note that this ability is
     not universally supported by servers (and is not quite the
     behaviour specified by the standard).

delete FILE ...
     Delete the list of files on the server.

mkdir DIRECTORY
     Create a new directory DIRECTORY on the server.

rmdir DIRECTORY
     Delete the directory DIRECTORY on the server.

rename OLD-NAME NEW-NAME
     Rename file OLD-NAME to NEW-NAME on the server.

site ARG ...
     Send a host-specific command to the server.  You will probably only
     need this if instructed by the server to use it.

quote ARG ...
     Send the raw FTP command sequence to the server.  You should be
     familiar with the FTP command set as defined in RFC959 before doing
     this.  Useful commands may include STAT and HELP.  Note also the
     mechanism for returning messages as described for the variable
     ZFTP_VERBOSE below, in particular that all messages from the
     control connection are sent to standard error.

close
quit
     Close the current data connection.  This unsets the shell
     parameters ZFTP_HOST, ZFTP_PORT, ZFTP_IP, ZFTP_SYSTEM, ZFTP_USER,
     ZFTP_ACCOUNT, ZFTP_PWD, ZFTP_TYPE and ZFTP_MODE.

session [ SESSNAME ]
     Allows multiple FTP sessions to be used at once.  The name of the
     session is an arbitrary string of characters; the default session
     is called 'default'.  If this command is called without an
     argument, it will list all the current sessions; with an argument,
     it will either switch to the existing session called SESSNAME, or
     create a new session of that name.

     Each session remembers the status of the connection, the set of
     connection-specific shell parameters (the same set as are unset
     when a connection closes, as given in the description of close),
     and any user parameters specified with the params subcommand.
     Changing to a previous session restores those values; changing to a
     new session initialises them in the same way as if zftp had just
     been loaded.  The name of the current session is given by the
     parameter ZFTP_SESSION.

rmsession [ SESSNAME ]
     Delete a session; if a name is not given, the current session is
     deleted.  If the current session is deleted, the earliest existing
     session becomes the new current session, otherwise the current
     session is not changed.  If the session being deleted is the only
     one, a new session called 'default' is created and becomes the
     current session; note that this is a new session even if the
     session being deleted is also called 'default'.  It is recommended
     that sessions not be deleted while background commands which use
     zftp are still active.


22.31.2 Parameters
------------------

The following shell parameters are used by zftp.  Currently none of them
are special.

ZFTP_TMOUT
     Integer.  The time in seconds to wait for a network operation to
     complete before returning an error.  If this is not set when the
     module is loaded, it will be given the default value 60.  A value
     of zero turns off timeouts.  If a timeout occurs on the control
     connection it will be closed.  Use a larger value if this occurs
     too frequently.

ZFTP_IP
     Readonly.  The IP address of the current connection in dot
     notation.

ZFTP_HOST
     Readonly.  The hostname of the current remote server.  If the host
     was opened as an IP number, ZFTP_HOST contains that instead; this
     saves the overhead for a name lookup, as IP numbers are most
     commonly used when a nameserver is unavailable.

ZFTP_PORT
     Readonly.  The number of the remote TCP port to which the
     connection is open (even if the port was originally specified as a
     named service).  Usually this is the standard FTP port, 21.

     In the unlikely event that your system does not have the
     appropriate conversion functions, this appears in network byte
     order.  If your system is little-endian, the port then consists of
     two swapped bytes and the standard port will be reported as 5376.
     In that case, numeric ports passed to zftp open will also need to
     be in this format.

ZFTP_SYSTEM
     Readonly.  The system type string returned by the server in
     response to an FTP SYST request.  The most interesting case is a
     string beginning "UNIX Type: L8", which ensures maximum
     compatibility with a local UNIX host.

ZFTP_TYPE
     Readonly.  The type to be used for data transfers , either 'A' or
     'I'.  Use the type subcommand to change this.

ZFTP_USER
     Readonly.  The username currently logged in, if any.

ZFTP_ACCOUNT
     Readonly.  The account name of the current user, if any.  Most
     servers do not require an account name.

ZFTP_PWD
     Readonly.  The current directory on the server.

ZFTP_CODE
     Readonly.  The three digit code of the last FTP reply from the
     server as a string.  This can still be read after the connection is
     closed, and is not changed when the current session changes.

ZFTP_REPLY
     Readonly.  The last line of the last reply sent by the server.
     This can still be read after the connection is closed, and is not
     changed when the current session changes.

ZFTP_SESSION
     Readonly.  The name of the current FTP session; see the description
     of the session subcommand.

ZFTP_PREFS
     A string of preferences for altering aspects of zftp's behaviour.
     Each preference is a single character.  The following are defined:

     P
          Passive: attempt to make the remote server initiate data
          transfers.  This is slightly more efficient than sendport
          mode.  If the letter S occurs later in the string, zftp will
          use sendport mode if passive mode is not available.

     S
          Sendport: initiate transfers by the FTP PORT command.  If this
          occurs before any P in the string, passive mode will never be
          attempted.

     D
          Dumb: use only the bare minimum of FTP commands.  This
          prevents the variables ZFTP_SYSTEM and ZFTP_PWD from being
          set, and will mean all connections default to ASCII type.  It
          may prevent ZFTP_SIZE from being set during a transfer if the
          server does not send it anyway (many servers do).

     If ZFTP_PREFS is not set when zftp is loaded, it will be set to a
     default of 'PS', i.e.  use passive mode if available, otherwise
     fall back to sendport mode.

ZFTP_VERBOSE
     A string of digits between 0 and 5 inclusive, specifying which
     responses from the server should be printed.  All responses go to
     standard error.  If any of the numbers 1 to 5 appear in the string,
     raw responses from the server with reply codes beginning with that
     digit will be printed to standard error.  The first digit of the
     three digit reply code is defined by RFC959 to correspond to:

     1.
          A positive preliminary reply.

     2.
          A positive completion reply.

     3.
          A positive intermediate reply.

     4.
          A transient negative completion reply.

     5.
          A permanent negative completion reply.

     It should be noted that, for unknown reasons, the reply 'Service
     not available', which forces termination of a connection, is
     classified as 421, i.e.  'transient negative', an interesting
     interpretation of the word 'transient'.

     The code 0 is special: it indicates that all but the last line of
     multiline replies read from the server will be printed to standard
     error in a processed format.  By convention, servers use this
     mechanism for sending information for the user to read.  The
     appropriate reply code, if it matches the same response, takes
     priority.

     If ZFTP_VERBOSE is not set when zftp is loaded, it will be set to
     the default value 450, i.e., messages destined for the user and all
     errors will be printed.  A null string is valid and specifies that
     no messages should be printed.


22.31.3 Functions
-----------------


zftp_chpwd
     If this function is set by the user, it is called every time the
     directory changes on the server, including when a user is logged
     in, or when a connection is closed.  In the last case, $ZFTP_PWD
     will be unset; otherwise it will reflect the new directory.

zftp_progress
     If this function is set by the user, it will be called during a
     get, put or append operation each time sufficient data has been
     received from the host.  During a get, the data is sent to standard
     output, so it is vital that this function should write to standard
     error or directly to the terminal, _not_ to standard output.

     When it is called with a transfer in progress, the following
     additional shell parameters are set:

     ZFTP_FILE
          The name of the remote file being transferred from or to.

     ZFTP_TRANSFER
          A G for a get operation and a P for a put operation.

     ZFTP_SIZE
          The total size of the complete file being transferred: the
          same as the first value provided by the remote and local
          subcommands for a particular file.  If the server cannot
          supply this value for a remote file being retrieved, it will
          not be set.  If input is from a pipe the value may be
          incorrect and correspond simply to a full pipe buffer.

     ZFTP_COUNT
          The amount of data so far transferred; a number between zero
          and $ZFTP_SIZE, if that is set.  This number is always
          available.

     The function is initially called with ZFTP_TRANSFER set
     appropriately and ZFTP_COUNT set to zero.  After the transfer is
     finished, the function will be called one more time with
     ZFTP_TRANSFER set to GF or PF, in case it wishes to tidy up.  It is
     otherwise never called twice with the same value of ZFTP_COUNT.

     Sometimes the progress meter may cause disruption.  It is up to the
     user to decide whether the function should be defined and to use
     unfunction when necessary.


22.31.4 Problems
----------------


A connection may not be opened in the left hand side of a pipe as this
occurs in a subshell and the file information is not updated in the main
shell.  In the case of type or mode changes or closing the connection in
a subshell, the information is returned but variables are not updated
until the next call to zftp.  Other status changes in subshells will not
be reflected by changes to the variables (but should be otherwise
harmless).

Deleting sessions while a zftp command is active in the background can
have unexpected effects, even if it does not use the session being
deleted.  This is because all shell subprocesses share information on
the state of all connections, and deleting a session changes the
ordering of that information.

On some operating systems, the control connection is not valid after a
fork(), so that operations in subshells, on the left hand side of a
pipeline, or in the background are not possible, as they should be.
This is presumably a bug in the operating system.

File: zsh.info,  Node: The zsh/zle Module,  Next: The zsh/zleparameter Module,  Prev: The zsh/zftp Module,  Up: Zsh Modules

