23.3 User Functions
===================


This section describes functions that are designed to be called directly
by the user.  The first part describes those functions associated with
the user's calendar; the second part describes the use in glob
qualifiers.


23.3.1 Calendar system functions
--------------------------------



calendar [ -abdDsv ] [ -C CALFILE ] [ -n NUM ] [ -S SHOWPROG ]
         [ [ START ] END ]
calendar -r [ -abdDrsv ] [ -C CALFILE ] [ -n NUM ] [ -S SHOWPROG ]
         [ START ]
     Show events in the calendar.

     With no arguments, show events from the start of today until the
     end of the next working day after today.  In other words, if today
     is Friday, Saturday, or Sunday, show up to the end of the following
     Monday, otherwise show today and tomorrow.

     If END is given, show events from the start of today up to the time
     and date given, which is in the format described in the previous
     section.  Note that if this is a date the time is assumed to be
     midnight at the start of the date, so that effectively this shows
     all events before the given date.

     END may start with a +, in which case the remainder of the
     specification is a relative time format as described in the
     previous section indicating the range of time from the start time
     that is to be included.

     If START is also given, show events starting from that time and
     date.  The word now can be used to indicate the current time.

     To implement an alert when events are due, include calendar -s in
     your ~/.zshrc file.

     Options:

     -a
          Show all items in the calendar, regardless of the start and
          end.

     -b
          Brief: don't display continuation lines (i.e.  indented lines
          following the line with the date/time), just the first line.

     -B LINES
          Brief: display at most the first LINES lines of the calendar
          entry.  '-B 1' is equivalent to '-b'.

     -C CALFILE
          Explicitly specify a calendar file instead of the value of the
          calendar-file style or the default ~/calendar.

     -d
          Move any events that have passed from the calendar file to the
          "done" file, as given by the done-file style or the default
          which is the calendar file with .done appended.  This option
          is implied by the -s option.

     -D
          Turns off the option -d, even if the -s option is also
          present.

     -n NUM, -NUM
          Show at least NUM events, if present in the calendar file,
          regardless of the start and end.

     -r
          Show all the remaining options in the calendar, ignoring the
          given END time.  The START time is respected; any argument
          given is treated as a START time.

     -s
          Use the shell's sched command to schedule a timed event that
          will warn the user when an event is due.  Note that the sched
          command only runs if the shell is at an interactive prompt; a
          foreground task blocks the scheduled task from running until
          it is finished.

          The timed event usually runs the programme calendar_show to
          show the event, as described in *note Calendar Utility
          Functions::.

          By default, a warning of the event is shown five minutes
          before it is due.  The warning period can be configured by the
          style warn-time or for a single calendar entry by including
          WARN RELTIME in the first line of the entry, where RELTIME is
          one of the usual relative time formats.

          A repeated event may be indicated by including RPT RELDATE in
          the first line of the entry.  After the scheduled event has
          been displayed it will be re-entered into the calendar file at
          a time RELDATE after the existing event.  Note that this is
          currently the only use made of the repeat count, so that it is
          not possible to query the schedule for a recurrence of an
          event in the calendar until the previous event has passed.

          If RPT is used, it is also possible to specify that certain
          recurrences of an event are rescheduled or cancelled.  This is
          done with the OCCURRENCE keyword, followed by whitespace and
          the date and time of the occurrence in the regular sequence,
          followed by whitespace and either the date and time of the
          rescheduled event or the exact string CANCELLED.  In this case
          the date and time must be in exactly the "date with local
          time" format used by the text/calendar MIME type (RFC 2445),
          <YYYY><MM><DD>T<HH><MM><SS> (note the presence of the literal
          character T).  The first word (the regular recurrence) may be
          something other than a proper date/time to indicate that the
          event is additional to the normal sequence; a convention that
          retains the formatting appearance is XXXXXXXXTXXXXXX.

          Furthermore, it is useful to record the next regular
          recurrence (as then the displayed date may be for a
          rescheduled event so cannot be used for calculating the
          regular sequence).  This is specified by RECURRENCE and a time
          or date in the same format.  calendar_add adds such an
          indication when it encounters a recurring event that does not
          include one, based on the headline date/time.

          If calendar_add is used to update occurrences the UID keyword
          described there should be present in both the existing entry
          and the added occurrence in order to identify recurring event
          sequences.

          For example,

               Thu May 6, 2010 11:00 Informal chat RPT 1 week
                 # RECURRENCE 20100506T110000
                 # OCCURRENCE 20100513T110000 20100513T120000
                 # OCCURRENCE 20100520T110000 CANCELLED

          The event that occurs at 11:00 on 13th May 2010 is rescheduled
          an hour later.  The event that occurs a week later is
          cancelled.  The occurrences are given on a continuation line
          starting with a # character so will not usually be displayed
          as part of the event.  As elsewhere, no account of time zones
          is taken with the times.  After the next event occurs the
          headline date/time will be 'Thu May 13, 2010 12:00' while the
          RECURRENCE date/time will be '20100513T110000' (note that
          cancelled and moved events are not taken account of in the
          RECURRENCE, which records what the next regular recurrence is,
          but they are accounted for in the headline date/time).

          It is safe to run calendar -s to reschedule an existing event
          (if the calendar file has changed, for example), and also to
          have it running in multiples instances of the shell since the
          calendar file is locked when in use.

          By default, expired events are moved to the "done" file; see
          the -d option.  Use -D to prevent this.

     -S SHOWPROG
          Explicitly specify a programme to be used for showing events
          instead of the value of the show-prog style or the default
          calendar_show.

     -v
          Verbose: show more information about stages of processing.
          This is useful for confirming that the function has
          successfully parsed the dates in the calendar file.

calendar_add [ -BL ] EVENT ...
     Adds a single event to the calendar in the appropriate location.
     The event can contain multiple lines, as described in *note
     Calendar File and Date Formats::.  Using this function ensures that
     the calendar file is sorted in date and time order.  It also makes
     special arrangements for locking the file while it is altered.  The
     old calendar is left in a file with the suffix .old.

     The option -B indicates that backing up the calendar file will be
     handled by the caller and should not be performed by calendar_add.
     The option -L indicates that calendar_add does not need to lock the
     calendar file as it is already locked.  These options will not
     usually be needed by users.

     If the style reformat-date is true, the date and time of the new
     entry will be rewritten into the standard date format: see the
     descriptions of this style and the style date-format.

     The function can use a unique identifier stored with each event to
     ensure that updates to existing events are treated correctly.  The
     entry should contain the word UID, followed by whitespace, followed
     by a word consisting entirely of hexadecimal digits of arbitrary
     length (all digits are significant, including leading zeroes).  As
     the UID is not directly useful to the user, it is convenient to
     hide it on an indented continuation line starting with a #, for
     example:

          Aug 31, 2007 09:30  Celebrate the end of the holidays
            # UID 045B78A0

     The second line will not be shown by the calendar function.

     It is possible to specify the RPT keyword followed by CANCELLED
     instead of a relative time.  This causes any matched event or
     series of events to be cancelled (the original event does not have
     to be marked as recurring in order to be cancelled by this method).
     A UID is required in order to match an existing event in the
     calendar.

     calendar_add will attempt to manage recurrences and occurrences of
     repeating events as described for event scheduling by calendar -s
     above.  To reschedule or cancel a single event calendar_add should
     be called with an entry that includes the correct UID but does
     _not_ include the RPT keyword as this is taken to mean the entry
     applies to a series of repeating events and hence replaces all
     existing information.  Each rescheduled or cancelled occurrence
     must have an OCCURRENCE keyword in the entry passed to calendar_add
     which will be merged into the calendar file.  Any existing
     reference to the occurrence is replaced.  An occurrence that does
     not refer to a valid existing event is added as a one-off
     occurrence to the same calendar entry.

calendar_edit
     This calls the user's editor to edit the calendar file.  If there
     are arguments, they are taken as the editor to use (the file name
     is appended to the commands); otherwise, the editor is given by the
     variable VISUAL, if set, else the variable EDITOR.

     If the calendar scheduler was running, then after editing the file
     calendar -s is called to update it.

     This function locks out the calendar system during the edit.  Hence
     it should be used to edit the calendar file if there is any
     possibility of a calendar event occurring meanwhile.  Note this can
     lead to another shell with calendar functions enabled hanging
     waiting for a lock, so it is necessary to quit the editor as soon
     as possible.

calendar_parse CALENDAR-ENTRY
     This is the internal function that analyses the parts of a calendar
     entry, which is passed as the only argument.  The function returns
     status 1 if the argument could not be parsed as a calendar entry
     and status 2 if the wrong number of arguments were passed; it also
     sets the parameter reply to an empty associative array.  Otherwise,
     it returns status 0 and sets elements of the associative array
     reply as follows:

     time
          The time as a string of digits in the same units as
          $EPOCHSECONDS
     schedtime
          The regularly scheduled time.  This may differ from the actual
          event time time if this is a recurring event and the next
          occurrence has been rescheduled.  Then time gives the actual
          time and schedtime the time of the regular recurrence before
          modification.
     text1
          The text from the line not including the date and time of the
          event, but including any WARN or RPT keywords and values.
     warntime
          Any warning time given by the WARN keyword as a string of
          digits containing the time at which to warn in the same units
          as $EPOCHSECONDS.  (Note this is an absolute time, not the
          relative time passed down.)  Not set no WARN keyword and value
          were matched.
     warnstr
          The raw string matched after the WARN keyword, else unset.
     rpttime
          Any recurrence time given by the RPT keyword as a string of
          digits containing the time of the recurrence in the same units
          as $EPOCHSECONDS.  (Note this is an absolute time.)  Not set
          if no RPT keyword and value were matched.
     schedrpttime
          The next regularly scheduled occurrence of a recurring event
          before modification.  This may differ from rpttime, which is
          the actual time of the event that may have been rescheduled
          from the regular time.
     rptstr
          The raw string matched after the RPT keyword, else unset.
     text2
          The text from the line after removal of the date and any
          keywords and values.

calendar_showdate [ -r ] [ -f FMT ] DATE-SPEC ...
     The given DATE-SPEC is interpreted and the corresponding date and
     time printed.  If the initial DATE-SPEC begins with a + or - it is
     treated as relative to the current time; DATE-SPECs after the first
     are treated as relative to the date calculated so far and a leading
     + is optional in that case.  This allows one to use the system as a
     date calculator.  For example, calendar_showdate '+1 month, 1st
     Friday' shows the date of the first Friday of next month.

     With the option -r nothing is printed but the value of the date and
     time in seconds since the epoch is stored in the parameter REPLY.

     With the option -f FMT the given date/time conversion format is
     passed to strftime; see notes on the date-format style below.

     In order to avoid ambiguity with negative relative date
     specifications, options must occur in separate words; in other
     words, -r and -f should not be combined in the same word.

calendar_sort
     Sorts the calendar file into date and time order.  The old calendar
     is left in a file with the suffix .old.


23.3.2 Glob qualifiers
----------------------


age
     The function age can be autoloaded and use separately from the
     calendar system, although it uses the function calendar_scandate
     for date formatting.  It requires the zsh/stat builtin, but uses
     only the builtin zstat.

     age selects files having a given modification time for use as a
     glob qualifier.  The format of the date is the same as that
     understood by the calendar system, described in *note Calendar File
     and Date Formats::.

     The function can take one or two arguments, which can be supplied
     either directly as command or arguments, or separately as shell
     parameters.

          print *(e:age 2006/10/04 2006/10/09:)

     The example above matches all files modified between the start of
     those dates.  The second argument may alternatively be a relative
     time introduced by a +:

          print *(e:age 2006/10/04 +5d:)

     The example above is equivalent to the previous example.

     In addition to the special use of days of the week, today and
     yesterday, times with no date may be specified; these apply to
     today.  Obviously such uses become problematic around midnight.

          print *(e-age 12:00 13:30-)

     The example above shows files modified between 12:00 and 13:00
     today.

          print *(e:age 2006/10/04:)

     The example above matches all files modified on that date.  If the
     second argument is omitted it is taken to be exactly 24 hours after
     the first argument (even if the first argument contains a time).

          print *(e-age 2006/10/04:10:15 2006/10/04:10:45-)

     The example above supplies times.  Note that whitespace within the
     time and date specification must be quoted to ensure age receives
     the correct arguments, hence the use of the additional colon to
     separate the date and time.

          AGEREF=2006/10/04:10:15
          AGEREF2=2006/10/04:10:45
          print *(+age)

     This shows the same example before using another form of argument
     passing.  The dates and times in the parameters AGEREF and AGEREF2
     stay in effect until unset, but will be overridden if any argument
     is passed as an explicit argument to age.  Any explicit argument
     causes both parameters to be ignored.

     Instead of an explicit date and time, it's possible to use the
     modification time of a file as the date and time for either
     argument by introducing the file name with a colon:

          print *(e-age :file1-)

     matches all files created on the same day (24 hours starting from
     midnight) as file1.

          print *(e-age :file1 :file2-)

     matches all files modified no earlier than file1 and no later than
     file2; precision here is to the nearest second.

after
before
     The functions after and before are simpler versions of age that
     take just one argument.  The argument is parsed similarly to an
     argument of age; if it is not given the variable AGEREF is
     consulted.  As the names of the functions suggest, a file matches
     if its modification time is after or before the time and date
     specified.  If a time only is given the date is today.

     The two following examples are therefore equivalent:
          print *(e-after 12:00-)
          print *(e-after today:12:00-)


File: zsh.info,  Node: Calendar Styles,  Next: Calendar Utility Functions,  Prev: Calendar System User Functions,  Up: Calendar Function System

