23.5 Utility functions
======================


calendar_lockfiles
     Attempt to lock the files given in the argument.  To prevent
     problems with network file locking this is done in an ad hoc
     fashion by attempting to create a symbolic link to the file with
     the name FILE.lockfile.  No other system level functions are used
     for locking, i.e.  the file can be accessed and modified by any
     utility that does not use this mechanism.  In particular, the user
     is not prevented from editing the calendar file at the same time
     unless calendar_edit is used.

     Three attempts are made to lock the file before giving up.  If the
     module zsh/zselect is available, the times of the attempts are
     jittered so that multiple instances of the calling function are
     unlikely to retry at the same time.

     The files locked are appended to the array lockfiles, which should
     be local to the caller.

     If all files were successfully locked, status zero is returned,
     else status one.

     This function may be used as a general file locking function,
     although this will only work if only this mechanism is used to lock
     files.

calendar_read
     This is a backend used by various other functions to parse the
     calendar file, which is passed as the only argument.  The array
     calendar_entries is set to the list of events in the file; no
     pruning is done except that ampersands are removed from the start
     of the line.  Each entry may contain multiple lines.

calendar_scandate
     This is a generic function to parse dates and times that may be
     used separately from the calendar system.  The argument is a date
     or time specification as described in *note Calendar File and Date
     Formats::.  The parameter REPLY is set to the number of seconds
     since the epoch corresponding to that date or time.  By default,
     the date and time may occur anywhere within the given argument.

     Returns status zero if the date and time were successfully parsed,
     else one.

     Options:
     -a
          The date and time are anchored to the start of the argument;
          they will not be matched if there is preceding text.

     -A
          The date and time are anchored to both the start and end of
          the argument; they will not be matched if the is any other
          text in the argument.

     -d
          Enable additional debugging output.

     -m
          Minus.  When -R ANCHOR_TIME is also given the relative time is
          calculated backwards from ANCHOR_TIME.

     -r
          The argument passed is to be parsed as a relative time.

     -R ANCHOR_TIME
          The argument passed is to be parsed as a relative time.  The
          time is relative to ANCHOR_TIME, a time in seconds since the
          epoch, and the returned value is the absolute time
          corresponding to advancing ANCHOR_TIME by the relative time
          given.  This allows lengths of months to be correctly taken
          into account.  If the final day does not exist in the given
          month, the last day of the final month is given.  For example,
          if the anchor time is during 31st January 2007 and the
          relative time is 1 month, the final time is the same time of
          day during 28th February 2007.

     -s
          In addition to setting REPLY, set REPLY2 to the remainder of
          the argument after the date and time have been stripped.  This
          is empty if the option -A was given.

     -t
          Allow a time with no date specification.  The date is assumed
          to be today.  The behaviour is unspecified if the iron tongue
          of midnight is tolling twelve.

calendar_show
     The function used by default to display events.  It accepts a start
     time and end time for events, both in epoch seconds, and an event
     description.

     The event is always printed to standard output.  If the command
     line editor is active (which will usually be the case) the command
     line will be redisplayed after the output.

     If the parameter DISPLAY is set and the start and end times are the
     same (indicating a scheduled event), the function uses the command
     xmessage to display a window with the event details.


File: zsh.info,  Node: Calendar Bugs,  Prev: Calendar Utility Functions,  Up: Calendar Function System

