25.3 Functions
==============


The sequence of operations in performing a file transfer is essentially
the same as that in a standard FTP client.  Note that, due to a quirk of
the shell's getopts builtin, for those functions that handle options you
must use '--' rather than '-' to ensure the remaining arguments are
treated literally (a single '-' is treated as an argument).


25.3.1 Opening a connection
---------------------------

zfparams [ HOST [ USER [ PASSWORD ... ] ] ]
     Set or show the parameters for a future zfopen with no arguments.
     If no arguments are given, the current parameters are displayed
     (the password will be shown as a line of asterisks).  If a HOST is
     given, and either the USER or PASSWORD is not, they will be
     prompted for; also, any parameter given as '?' will be prompted
     for, and if the '?' is followed by a string, that will be used as
     the prompt.  As zfopen calls zfparams to store the parameters, this
     usually need not be called directly.

     A single argument '-' will delete the stored parameters.  This will
     also cause the memory of the last directory (and so on) on the
     other host to be deleted.

zfopen [ -1 ] [ HOST [ USER [ PASSWORD [ ACCOUNT ] ] ] ]
     If HOST is present, open a connection to that host under username
     USER with password PASSWORD (and, on the rare occasions when it is
     necessary, account ACCOUNT).  If a necessary parameter is missing
     or given as '?' it will be prompted for.  If HOST is not present,
     use a previously stored set of parameters.

     If the command was successful, and the terminal is compatible with
     xterm or is sun-cmd, a summary will appear in the title bar, giving
     the local host:directory and the remote host:directory; this is
     handled by the function zftp_chpwd, described below.

     Normally, the HOST, USER and PASSWORD are internally recorded for
     later re-opening, either by a zfopen with no arguments, or
     automatically (see below).  With the option '-1', no information is
     stored.  Also, if an open command with arguments failed, the
     parameters will not be retained (and any previous parameters will
     also be deleted).  A zfopen on its own, or a zfopen -1, never
     alters the stored parameters.

     Both zfopen and zfanon (but not zfparams) understand URLs of the
     form ftp://HOST/PATH... as meaning to connect to the HOST, then
     change directory to PATH (which must be a directory, not a file).
     The 'ftp://' can be omitted; the trailing '/' is enough to trigger
     recognition of the PATH.  Note prefixes other than 'ftp:' are not
     recognized, and that all characters after the first slash beyond
     HOST are significant in PATH.

zfanon [ -1 ] HOST
     Open a connection HOST for anonymous FTP. The username used is
     'anonymous'.  The password (which will be reported the first time)
     is generated as USER@HOST; this is then stored in the shell
     parameter $EMAIL_ADDR which can alternatively be set manually to a
     suitable string.


25.3.2 Directory management
---------------------------

zfcd [ DIR ]
zfcd -
zfcd OLD NEW
     Change the current directory on the remote server: this is
     implemented to have many of the features of the shell builtin cd.

     In the first form with DIR present, change to the directory DIR.
     The command 'zfcd ..' is treated specially, so is guaranteed to
     work on non-UNIX servers (note this is handled internally by zftp).
     If DIR is omitted, has the effect of 'zfcd ~'.

     The second form changes to the directory previously current.

     The third form attempts to change the current directory by
     replacing the first occurrence of the string OLD with the string
     NEW in the current directory.

     Note that in this command, and indeed anywhere a remote filename is
     expected, the string which on the local host corresponds to '~' is
     converted back to a '~' before being passed to the remote machine.
     This is convenient because of the way expansion is performed on the
     command line before zfcd receives a string.  For example, suppose
     the command is 'zfcd ~/foo'.  The shell will expand this to a full
     path such as 'zfcd /home/user2/pws/foo'.  At this stage, zfcd
     recognises the initial path as corresponding to '~' and will send
     the directory to the remote host as ~/foo, so that the '~' will be
     expanded by the server to the correct remote host directory.  Other
     named directories of the form '~name' are not treated in this
     fashion.

zfhere
     Change directory on the remote server to the one corresponding to
     the current local directory, with special handling of '~' as in
     zfcd.  For example, if the current local directory is ~/foo/bar,
     then zfhere performs the effect of 'zfcd ~/foo/bar'.

zfdir [ -rfd ] [ - ] [ DIR-OPTIONS ] [ DIR ]
     Produce a long directory listing.  The arguments DIR-OPTIONS and
     DIR are passed directly to the server and their effect is
     implementation dependent, but specifying a particular remote
     directory DIR is usually possible.  The output is passed through a
     pager given by the environment variable $PAGER, or 'more' if that
     is not set.

     The directory is usually cached for re-use.  In fact, two caches
     are maintained.  One is for use when there is no DIR-OPTIONS or
     DIR, i.e.  a full listing of the current remote directory; it is
     flushed when the current remote directory changes.  The other is
     kept for repeated use of zfdir with the same arguments; for
     example, repeated use of 'zfdir /pub/gnu' will only require the
     directory to be retrieved on the first call.  Alternatively, this
     cache can be re-viewed with the -r option.  As relative directories
     will confuse zfdir, the -f option can be used to force the cache to
     be flushed before the directory is listed.  The option -d will
     delete both caches without showing a directory listing; it will
     also delete the cache of file names in the current remote
     directory, if any.

zfls [ LS-OPTIONS ] [ DIR ]
     List files on the remote server.  With no arguments, this will
     produce a simple list of file names for the current remote
     directory.  Any arguments are passed directly to the server.  No
     pager and no caching is used.


25.3.3 Status commands
----------------------

zftype [ TYPE ]
     With no arguments, show the type of data to be transferred, usually
     ASCII or binary.  With an argument, change the type: the types 'A'
     or 'ASCII' for ASCII data and 'B' or 'BINARY', 'I' or 'IMAGE' for
     binary data are understood case-insensitively.

zfstat [ -v ]
     Show the status of the current or last connection, as well as the
     status of some of zftp's status variables.  With the -v option, a
     more verbose listing is produced by querying the server for its
     version of events, too.


25.3.4 Retrieving files
-----------------------

The commands for retrieving files all take at least two options.  -G
suppresses remote filename expansion which would otherwise be performed
(see below for a more detailed description of that).  -t attempts to set
the modification time of the local file to that of the remote file: see
the description of the function zfrtime below for more information.

zfget [ -Gtc ] FILE1 ...
     Retrieve all the listed files FILE1 ...  one at a time from the
     remote server.  If a file contains a '/', the full name is passed
     to the remote server, but the file is stored locally under the name
     given by the part after the final '/'.  The option -c (cat) forces
     all files to be sent as a single stream to standard output; in this
     case the -t option has no effect.

zfuget [ -Gvst ] FILE1 ...
     As zfget, but only retrieve files where the version on the remote
     server is newer (has a later modification time), or where the local
     file does not exist.  If the remote file is older but the files
     have different sizes, or if the sizes are the same but the remote
     file is newer, the user will usually be queried.  With the option
     -s, the command runs silently and will always retrieve the file in
     either of those two cases.  With the option -v, the command prints
     more information about the files while it is working out whether or
     not to transfer them.

zfcget [ -Gt ] FILE1 ...
     As zfget, but if any of the local files exists, and is shorter than
     the corresponding remote file, the command assumes that it is the
     result of a partially completed transfer and attempts to transfer
     the rest of the file.  This is useful on a poor connection which
     keeps failing.

     Note that this requires a commonly implemented, but non-standard,
     version of the FTP protocol, so is not guaranteed to work on all
     servers.

zfgcp [ -Gt ] REMOTE-FILE LOCAL-FILE
zfgcp [ -Gt ] RFILE1 ... LDIR
     This retrieves files from the remote server with arguments behaving
     similarly to the cp command.

     In the first form, copy REMOTE-FILE from the server to the local
     file LOCAL-FILE.

     In the second form, copy all the remote files RFILE1 ...  into the
     local directory LDIR retaining the same basenames.  This assumes
     UNIX directory semantics.


25.3.5 Sending files
--------------------

zfput [ -r ] FILE1 ...
     Send all the FILE1 ...  given separately to the remote server.  If
     a filename contains a '/', the full filename is used locally to
     find the file, but only the basename is used for the remote file
     name.

     With the option -r, if any of the FILES are directories they are
     sent recursively with all their subdirectories, including files
     beginning with '.'.  This requires that the remote machine
     understand UNIX file semantics, since '/' is used as a directory
     separator.

zfuput [ -vs ] FILE1 ...
     As zfput, but only send files which are newer than their remote
     equivalents, or if the remote file does not exist.  The logic is
     the same as for zfuget, but reversed between local and remote
     files.

zfcput FILE1 ...
     As zfput, but if any remote file already exists and is shorter than
     the local equivalent, assume it is the result of an incomplete
     transfer and send the rest of the file to append to the existing
     part.  As the FTP append command is part of the standard set, this
     is in principle more likely to work than zfcget.

zfpcp LOCAL-FILE REMOTE-FILE
zfpcp LFILE1 ... RDIR
     This sends files to the remote server with arguments behaving
     similarly to the cp command.

     With two arguments, copy LOCAL-FILE to the server as REMOTE-FILE.

     With more than two arguments, copy all the local files LFILE1 ...
     into the existing remote directory RDIR retaining the same
     basenames.  This assumes UNIX directory semantics.

     A problem arises if you attempt to use zfpcp LFILE1 RDIR, i.e.  the
     second form of copying but with two arguments, as the command has
     no simple way of knowing if RDIR corresponds to a directory or a
     filename.  It attempts to resolve this in various ways.  First, if
     the RDIR argument is '.' or '..' or ends in a slash, it is assumed
     to be a directory.  Secondly, if the operation of copying to a
     remote file in the first form failed, and the remote server sends
     back the expected failure code 553 and a reply including the string
     'Is a directory', then zfpcp will retry using the second form.


25.3.6 Closing the connection
-----------------------------

zfclose
     Close the connection.


25.3.7 Session management
-------------------------

zfsession [ -lvod ] [ SESSNAME ]
     Allows you to manage multiple FTP sessions at once.  By default,
     connections take place in a session called 'default'; by giving the
     command 'zfsession SESSNAME' you can change to a new or existing
     session with a name of your choice.  The new session remembers its
     own connection, as well as associated shell parameters, and also
     the host/user parameters set by zfparams.  Hence you can have
     different sessions set up to connect to different hosts, each
     remembering the appropriate host, user and password.

     With no arguments, zfsession prints the name of the current
     session; with the option -l it lists all sessions which currently
     exist, and with the option -v it gives a verbose list showing the
     host and directory for each session, where the current session is
     marked with an asterisk.  With -o, it will switch to the most
     recent previous session.

     With -d, the given session (or else the current one) is removed;
     everything to do with it is completely forgotten.  If it was the
     only session, a new session called 'default' is created and made
     current.  It is safest not to delete sessions while background
     commands using zftp are active.

zftransfer SESS1:FILE1 SESS2:FILE2
     Transfer files between two sessions; no local copy is made.  The
     file is read from the session SESS1 as FILE1 and written to session
     SESS2 as file FILE2; FILE1 and FILE2 may be relative to the current
     directories of the session.  Either SESS1 or SESS2 may be omitted
     (though the colon should be retained if there is a possibility of a
     colon appearing in the file name) and defaults to the current
     session; FILE2 may be omitted or may end with a slash, in which
     case the basename of FILE1 will be added.  The sessions SESS1 and
     SESS2 must be distinct.

     The operation is performed using pipes, so it is required that the
     connections still be valid in a subshell, which is not the case
     under versions of some operating systems, presumably due to a
     system bug.


25.3.8 Bookmarks
----------------

The two functions zfmark and zfgoto allow you to 'bookmark' the present
location (host, user and directory) of the current FTP connection for
later use.  The file to be used for storing and retrieving bookmarks is
given by the parameter $ZFTP_BMFILE; if not set when one of the two
functions is called, it will be set to the file .zfbkmarks in the
directory where your zsh startup files live (usually ~).

zfmark [ BOOKMARK ]
     If given an argument, mark the current host, user and directory
     under the name BOOKMARK for later use by zfgoto.  If there is no
     connection open, use the values for the last connection immediately
     before it was closed; it is an error if there was none.  Any
     existing bookmark under the same name will be silently replaced.

     If not given an argument, list the existing bookmarks and the
     points to which they refer in the form USER@HOST:DIRECTORY; this is
     the format in which they are stored, and the file may be edited
     directly.

zfgoto [ -n ] BOOKMARK
     Return to the location given by BOOKMARK, as previously set by
     zfmark.  If the location has user 'ftp' or 'anonymous', open the
     connection with zfanon, so that no password is required.  If the
     user and host parameters match those stored for the current
     session, if any, those will be used, and again no password is
     required.  Otherwise a password will be prompted for.

     With the option -n, the bookmark is taken to be a nickname stored
     by the ncftp program in its bookmark file, which is assumed to be
     ~/.ncftp/bookmarks.  The function works identically in other ways.
     Note that there is no mechanism for adding or modifying ncftp
     bookmarks from the zftp functions.


25.3.9 Other functions
----------------------

Mostly, these functions will not be called directly (apart from zfinit),
but are described here for completeness.  You may wish to alter
zftp_chpwd and zftp_progress, in particular.

zfinit [ -n ]
     As described above, this is used to initialize the zftp function
     system.  The -n option should be used if the zftp command is
     already built into the shell.

zfautocheck [ -dn ]
     This function is called to implement automatic reopening behaviour,
     as described in more detail below.  The options must appear in the
     first argument; -n prevents the command from changing to the old
     directory, while -d prevents it from setting the variable do_close,
     which it otherwise does as a flag for automatically closing the
     connection after a transfer.  The host and directory for the last
     session are stored in the variable $zflastsession, but the internal
     host/user/password parameters must also be correctly set.

zfcd_match PREFIX SUFFIX
     This performs matching for completion of remote directory names.
     If the remote server is UNIX, it will attempt to persuade the
     server to list the remote directory with subdirectories marked,
     which usually works but is not guaranteed.  On other hosts it
     simply calls zfget_match and hence completes all files, not just
     directories.  On some systems, directories may not even look like
     filenames.

zfget_match PREFIX SUFFIX
     This performs matching for completion of remote filenames.  It
     caches files for the current directory (only) in the shell
     parameter $zftp_fcache.  It is in the form to be called by the -K
     option of compctl, but also works when called from a widget-style
     completion function with PREFIX and SUFFIX set appropriately.

zfrglob VARNAME
     Perform remote globbing, as describes in more detail below.
     VARNAME is the name of a variable containing the pattern to be
     expanded; if there were any matches, the same variable will be set
     to the expanded set of filenames on return.

zfrtime LFILE RFILE [ TIME ]
     Set the local file LFILE to have the same modification time as the
     remote file RFILE, or the explicit time TIME in FTP format
     CCYYMMDDhhmmSS for the GMT timezone.  This uses the shell's
     zsh/datetime module to perform the conversion from GMT to local
     time.

zftp_chpwd
     This function is called every time a connection is opened, or
     closed, or the remote directory changes.  This version alters the
     title bar of an xterm-compatible or sun-cmd terminal emulator to
     reflect the local and remote hostnames and current directories.  It
     works best when combined with the function chpwd.  In particular, a
     function of the form

          chpwd() {
            if [[ -n $ZFTP_USER ]]; then
              zftp_chpwd
            else
              # usual chpwd e.g put host:directory in title bar
            fi
          }

     fits in well.

zftp_progress
     This function shows the status of the transfer.  It will not write
     anything unless the output is going to a terminal; however, if you
     transfer files in the background, you should turn off progress
     reports by hand using 'zstyle ':zftp:*' progress none'.  Note also
     that if you alter it, any output _must_ be to standard error, as
     standard output may be a file being received.  The form of the
     progress meter, or whether it is used at all, can be configured
     without altering the function, as described in the next section.

zffcache
     This is used to implement caching of files in the current directory
     for each session separately.  It is used by zfget_match and
     zfrglob.


File: zsh.info,  Node: Miscellaneous Features,  Prev: Zftp Functions,  Up: Zftp Function System

