25.4 Miscellaneous Features
===========================



25.4.1 Configuration
--------------------


Various styles are available using the standard shell style mechanism,
described in *note The zsh/zutil Module::.  Briefly, the command 'zstyle
':zftp:*' STYLE VALUE ...'.  defines the STYLE to have value VALUE; more
than one value may be given, although that is not useful in the cases
described here.  These values will then be used throughout the zftp
function system.  For more precise control, the first argument, which
gives a context in which the style applies, can be modified to include a
particular function, as for example ':zftp:zfget': the style will then
have the given value only in the zfget function.  Values for the same
style in different contexts may be set; the most specific function will
be used, where strings are held to be more specific than patterns, and
longer patterns and shorter patterns.  Note that only the top level
function name, as called by the user, is used; calling of lower level
functions is transparent to the user.  Hence modifications to the title
bar in zftp_chpwd use the contexts :zftp:zfopen, :zftp:zfcd, etc.,
depending where it was called from.  The following styles are
understood:

progress
     Controls the way that zftp_progress reports on the progress of a
     transfer.  If empty, unset, or 'none', no progress report is made;
     if 'bar' a growing bar of inverse video is shown; if 'percent' (or
     any other string, though this may change in future), the percentage
     of the file transferred is shown.  The bar meter requires that the
     width of the terminal be available via the $COLUMNS parameter
     (normally this is set automatically).  If the size of the file
     being transferred is not available, bar and percent meters will
     simply show the number of bytes transferred so far.

     When zfinit is run, if this style is not defined for the context
     :zftp:*, it will be set to 'bar'.

update
     Specifies the minimum time interval between updates of the progress
     meter in seconds.  No update is made unless new data has been
     received, so the actual time interval is limited only by
     $ZFTP_TIMEOUT.

     As described for progress, zfinit will force this to default to 1.

remote-glob
     If set to '1', 'yes' or 'true', filename generation (globbing) is
     performed on the remote machine instead of by zsh itself; see
     below.

titlebar
     If set to '1', 'yes' or 'true', zftp_chpwd will put the remote host
     and remote directory into the titlebar of terminal emulators such
     as xterm or sun-cmd that allow this.

     As described for progress, zfinit will force this to default to 1.

chpwd
     If set to '1' 'yes' or 'true', zftp_chpwd will call the function
     chpwd when a connection is closed.  This is useful if the remote
     host details were put into the terminal title bar by zftp_chpwd and
     your usual chpwd also modifies the title bar.

     When zfinit is run, it will determine whether chpwd exists and if
     so it will set the default value for the style to 1 if none exists
     already.

Note that there is also an associative array zfconfig which contains
values used by the function system.  This should not be modified or
overwritten.


25.4.2 Remote globbing
----------------------


The commands for retrieving files usually perform filename generation
(globbing) on their arguments; this can be turned off by passing the
option -G to each of the commands.  Normally this operates by retrieving
a complete list of files for the directory in question, then matching
these locally against the pattern supplied.  This has the advantage that
the full range of zsh patterns (respecting the setting of the option
EXTENDED_GLOB) can be used.  However, it means that the directory part
of a filename will not be expanded and must be given exactly.  If the
remote server does not support the UNIX directory semantics, directory
handling is problematic and it is recommended that globbing only be used
within the current directory.  The list of files in the current
directory, if retrieved, will be cached, so that subsequent globs in the
same directory without an intervening zfcd are much faster.

If the remote-glob style (see above) is set, globbing is instead
performed on the remote host: the server is asked for a list of matching
files.  This is highly dependent on how the server is implemented,
though typically UNIX servers will provide support for basic glob
patterns.  This may in some cases be faster, as it avoids retrieving the
entire list of directory contents.


25.4.3 Automatic and temporary reopening
----------------------------------------


As described for the zfopen command, a subsequent zfopen with no
parameters will reopen the connection to the last host (this includes
connections made with the zfanon command).  Opened in this fashion, the
connection starts in the default remote directory and will remain open
until explicitly closed.

Automatic re-opening is also available.  If a connection is not
currently open and a command requiring a connection is given, the last
connection is implicitly reopened.  In this case the directory which was
current when the connection was closed again becomes the current
directory (unless, of course, the command given changes it).  Automatic
reopening will also take place if the connection was close by the remote
server for whatever reason (e.g.  a timeout).  It is not available if
the -1 option to zfopen or zfanon was used.

Furthermore, if the command issued is a file transfer, the connection
will be closed after the transfer is finished, hence providing a
one-shot mode for transfers.  This does not apply to directory changing
or listing commands; for example a zfdir may reopen a connection but
will leave it open.  Also, automatic closure will only ever happen in
the same command as automatic opening, i.e a zfdir directly followed by
a zfget will never close the connection automatically.

Information about the previous connection is given by the zfstat
function.  So, for example, if that reports:

     Session:        default
     Not connected.
     Last session:   ftp.bar.com:/pub/textfiles

then the command zfget file.txt will attempt to reopen a connection to
ftp.bar.com, retrieve the file /pub/textfiles/file.txt, and immediately
close the connection again.  On the other hand, zfcd .. will open the
connection in the directory /pub and leave it open.

Note that all the above is local to each session; if you return to a
previous session, the connection for that session is the one which will
be reopened.


25.4.4 Completion
-----------------


Completion of local and remote files, directories, sessions and
bookmarks is supported.  The older, compctl-style completion is defined
when zfinit is called; support for the new widget-based completion
system is provided in the function Completion/Zsh/Command/_zftp, which
should be installed with the other functions of the completion system
and hence should automatically be available.

File: zsh.info,  Node: User Contributions,  Prev: Zftp Function System,  Up: Top

