26.7 ZLE Functions
==================



26.7.1 Widgets
--------------


These functions all implement user-defined ZLE widgets (see *note Zsh
Line Editor::) which can be bound to keystrokes in interactive shells.
To use them, your .zshrc should contain lines of the form

     autoload FUNCTION
     zle -N FUNCTION

followed by an appropriate bindkey command to associate the function
with a key sequence.  Suggested bindings are described below.

bash-style word functions
     If you are looking for functions to implement moving over and
     editing words in the manner of bash, where only alphanumeric
     characters are considered word characters, you can use the
     functions described in the next section.  The following is
     sufficient:

          autoload -U select-word-style
          select-word-style bash


forward-word-match, backward-word-match
kill-word-match, backward-kill-word-match
transpose-words-match, capitalize-word-match
up-case-word-match, down-case-word-match
delete-whole-word-match, select-word-match
select-word-style, match-word-context, match-words-by-style
     The first eight '-match' functions are drop-in replacements for the
     builtin widgets without the suffix.  By default they behave in a
     similar way.  However, by the use of styles and the function
     select-word-style, the way words are matched can be altered.
     select-word-match is intended to be used as a text object in vi
     mode but with custom word styles.  For comparison, the widgets
     described in *note Text Objects:: use fixed definitions of words,
     compatible with the vim editor.

     The simplest way of configuring the functions is to use
     select-word-style, which can either be called as a normal function
     with the appropriate argument, or invoked as a user-defined widget
     that will prompt for the first character of the word style to be
     used.  The first time it is invoked, the first eight -match
     functions will automatically replace the builtin versions, so they
     do not need to be loaded explicitly.

     The word styles available are as follows.  Only the first character
     is examined.

     bash
          Word characters are alphanumeric characters only.

     normal
          As in normal shell operation: word characters are alphanumeric
          characters plus any characters present in the string given by
          the parameter $WORDCHARS.

     shell
          Words are complete shell command arguments, possibly including
          complete quoted strings, or any tokens special to the shell.

     whitespace
          Words are any set of characters delimited by whitespace.

     default
          Restore the default settings; this is usually the same as
          'normal'.

     All but 'default' can be input as an upper case character, which
     has the same effect but with subword matching turned on.  In this
     case, words with upper case characters are treated specially: each
     separate run of upper case characters, or an upper case character
     followed by any number of other characters, is considered a word.
     The style subword-range can supply an alternative character range
     to the default '[:upper:]'; the value of the style is treated as
     the contents of a '[...]' pattern (note that the outer brackets
     should not be supplied, only those surrounding named ranges).

     More control can be obtained using the zstyle command, as described
     in *note The zsh/zutil Module::.  Each style is looked up in the
     context :zle:WIDGET where WIDGET is the name of the user-defined
     widget, not the name of the function implementing it, so in the
     case of the definitions supplied by select-word-style the
     appropriate contexts are :zle:forward-word, and so on.  The
     function select-word-style itself always defines styles for the
     context ':zle:*' which can be overridden by more specific (longer)
     patterns as well as explicit contexts.

     The style word-style specifies the rules to use.  This may have the
     following values.

     normal
          Use the standard shell rules, i.e.  alphanumerics and
          $WORDCHARS, unless overridden by the styles word-chars or
          word-class.

     specified
          Similar to normal, but _only_ the specified characters, and
          not also alphanumerics, are considered word characters.

     unspecified
          The negation of specified.  The given characters are those
          which will _not_ be considered part of a word.

     shell
          Words are obtained by using the syntactic rules for generating
          shell command arguments.  In addition, special tokens which
          are never command arguments such as '()' are also treated as
          words.

     whitespace
          Words are whitespace-delimited strings of characters.

     The first three of those rules usually use $WORDCHARS, but the
     value in the parameter can be overridden by the style word-chars,
     which works in exactly the same way as $WORDCHARS.  In addition,
     the style word-class uses character class syntax to group
     characters and takes precedence over word-chars if both are set.
     The word-class style does not include the surrounding brackets of
     the character class; for example, '-:[:alnum:]' is a valid
     word-class to include all alphanumerics plus the characters '-' and
     ':'.  Be careful including ']', '^' and '-' as these are special
     inside character classes.

     word-style may also have '-subword' appended to its value to turn
     on subword matching, as described above.

     The style skip-chars is mostly useful for transpose-words and
     similar functions.  If set, it gives a count of characters starting
     at the cursor position which will not be considered part of the
     word and are treated as space, regardless of what they actually
     are.  For example, if

          zstyle ':zle:transpose-words' skip-chars 1

     has been set, and transpose-words-match is called with the cursor
     on the X of fooXbar, where X can be any character, then the
     resulting expression is barXfoo.

     Finer grained control can be obtained by setting the style
     word-context to an array of pairs of entries.  Each pair of entries
     consists of a PATTERN and a SUBCONTEXT.  The shell argument the
     cursor is on is matched against each PATTERN in turn until one
     matches; if it does, the context is extended by a colon and the
     corresponding SUBCONTEXT.  Note that the test is made against the
     original word on the line, with no stripping of quotes.  Special
     handling is done between words: the current context is examined and
     if it contains the string between the word is set to a single
     space; else if it is contains the string back, the word before the
     cursor is considered, else the word after cursor is considered.
     Some examples are given below.

     The style skip-whitespace-first is only used with the forward-word
     widget.  If it is set to true, then forward-word skips any
     non-word-characters, followed by any non-word-characters: this is
     similar to the behaviour of other word-orientated widgets, and also
     that used by other editors, however it differs from the standard
     zsh behaviour.  When using select-word-style the widget is set in
     the context :zle:* to true if the word style is bash and false
     otherwise.  It may be overridden by setting it in the more specific
     context :zle:forward-word*.

     Here are some examples of use of the styles, actually taken from
     the simplified interface in select-word-style:

          zstyle ':zle:*' word-style standard
          zstyle ':zle:*' word-chars ''

     Implements bash-style word handling for all widgets, i.e.  only
     alphanumerics are word characters; equivalent to setting the
     parameter WORDCHARS empty for the given context.

          style ':zle:*kill*' word-style space

     Uses space-delimited words for widgets with the word 'kill' in the
     name.  Neither of the styles word-chars nor word-class is used in
     this case.

     Here are some examples of use of the word-context style to extend
     the context.

          zstyle ':zle:*' word-context \
                 "*/*" filename "[[:space:]]" whitespace
          zstyle ':zle:transpose-words:whitespace' word-style shell
          zstyle ':zle:transpose-words:filename' word-style normal
          zstyle ':zle:transpose-words:filename' word-chars ''

     This provides two different ways of using transpose-words depending
     on whether the cursor is on whitespace between words or on a
     filename, here any word containing a /.  On whitespace, complete
     arguments as defined by standard shell rules will be transposed.
     In a filename, only alphanumerics will be transposed.  Elsewhere,
     words will be transposed using the default style for
     :zle:transpose-words.

     The word matching and all the handling of zstyle settings is
     actually implemented by the function match-words-by-style.  This
     can be used to create new user-defined widgets.  The calling
     function should set the local parameter curcontext to :zle:WIDGET,
     create the local parameter matched_words and call
     match-words-by-style with no arguments.  On return, matched_words
     will be set to an array with the elements: (1) the start of the
     line (2) the word before the cursor (3) any non-word characters
     between that word and the cursor (4) any non-word character at the
     cursor position plus any remaining non-word characters before the
     next word, including all characters specified by the skip-chars
     style, (5) the word at or following the cursor (6) any non-word
     characters following that word (7) the remainder of the line.  Any
     of the elements may be an empty string; the calling function should
     test for this to decide whether it can perform its function.

     If the variable matched_words is defined by the caller to
     match-words-by-style as an associative array (local -A
     matched_words), then the seven values given above should be
     retrieved from it as elements named start, word-before-cursor,
     ws-before-cursor, ws-after-cursor, word-after-cursor,
     ws-after-word, and end.  In addition the element is-word-start is 1
     if the cursor is on the start of a word or subword, or on white
     space before it (the cases can be distinguished by testing the
     ws-after-cursor element) and 0 otherwise.  This form is recommended
     for future compatibility.

     It is possible to pass options with arguments to
     match-words-by-style to override the use of styles.  The options
     are:
     -w
          WORD-STYLE
     -s
          SKIP-CHARS
     -c
          WORD-CLASS
     -C
          WORD-CHARS
     -r
          SUBWORD-RANGE

     For example, match-words-by-style -w shell -c 0 may be used to
     extract the command argument around the cursor.

     The word-context style is implemented by the function
     match-word-context.  This should not usually need to be called
     directly.

bracketed-paste-magic
     The bracketed-paste widget (see *note Miscellaneous:: in *note Zle
     Widgets::) inserts pasted text literally into the editor buffer
     rather than interpret it as keystrokes.  This disables some common
     usages where the self-insert widget is replaced in order to
     accomplish some extra processing.  An example is the contributed
     url-quote-magic widget described below.

     The bracketed-paste-magic widget is meant to replace
     bracketed-paste with a wrapper that re-enables these self-insert
     actions, and other actions as selected by zstyles.  Therefore this
     widget is installed with

          autoload -Uz bracketed-paste-magic
          zle -N bracketed-paste bracketed-paste-magic

     Other than enabling some widget processing, bracketed-paste-magic
     attempts to replicate bracketed-paste as faithfully as possible.

     The following zstyles may be set to control processing of pasted
     text.  All are looked up in the context ':bracketed-paste-magic'.

     active-widgets
          A list of patterns matching widget names that should be
          activated during the paste.  All other key sequences are
          processed as self-insert-unmeta.  The default is 'self-*' so
          any user-defined widgets named with that prefix are active
          along with the builtin self-insert.

          If this style is not set (explicitly deleted) or set to an
          empty value, no widgets are active and the pasted text is
          inserted literally.  If the value includes 'undefined-key',
          any unknown sequences are discarded from the pasted text.

     inactive-keys
          The inverse of active-widgets, a list of key sequences that
          always use self-insert-unmeta even when bound to an active
          widget.  Note that this is a list of literal key sequences,
          not patterns.

     paste-init
          A list of function names, called in widget context (but not as
          widgets).  The functions are called in order until one of them
          returns a non-zero status.  The parameter 'PASTED' contains
          the initial state of the pasted text.  All other ZLE
          parameters such as 'BUFFER' have their normal values and
          side-effects, and full history is available, so for example
          paste-init functions may move words from BUFFER into PASTED to
          make those words visible to the active-widgets.

          A non-zero return from a paste-init function does _not_
          prevent the paste itself from proceeding.

          Loading bracketed-paste-magic defines backward-extend-paste, a
          helper function for use in paste-init.

               zstyle :bracketed-paste-magic paste-init \
                      backward-extend-paste

          When a paste would insert into the middle of a word or append
          text to a word already on the line, backward-extend-paste
          moves the prefix from LBUFFER into PASTED so that the
          active-widgets see the full word so far.  This may be useful
          with url-quote-magic.

     paste-finish
          Another list of function names called in order until one
          returns non-zero.  These functions are called _after_ the
          pasted text has been processed by the active-widgets, but
          _before_ it is inserted into 'BUFFER'.  ZLE parameters have
          their normal values and side-effects.

          A non-zero return from a paste-finish function does _not_
          prevent the paste itself from proceeding.

          Loading bracketed-paste-magic also defines quote-paste, a
          helper function for use in paste-finish.

               zstyle :bracketed-paste-magic paste-finish \
                      quote-paste
               zstyle :bracketed-paste-magic:finish quote-style \
                      qqq

          When the pasted text is inserted into BUFFER, it is quoted per
          the quote-style value.  To forcibly turn off the built-in
          numeric prefix quoting of bracketed-paste, use:

               zstyle :bracketed-paste-magic:finish quote-style \
                      none

     _Important:_ During active-widgets processing of the paste (after
     paste-init and before paste-finish), BUFFER starts empty and
     history is restricted, so cursor motions, etc., may not pass
     outside of the pasted content.  Text assigned to BUFFER by the
     active widgets is copied back into PASTED before paste-finish.

copy-earlier-word
     This widget works like a combination of insert-last-word and
     copy-prev-shell-word.  Repeated invocations of the widget retrieve
     earlier words on the relevant history line.  With a numeric
     argument N, insert the Nth word from the history line; N may be
     negative to count from the end of the line.

     If insert-last-word has been used to retrieve the last word on a
     previous history line, repeated invocations will replace that word
     with earlier words from the same line.

     Otherwise, the widget applies to words on the line currently being
     edited.  The widget style can be set to the name of another widget
     that should be called to retrieve words.  This widget must accept
     the same three arguments as insert-last-word.

cycle-completion-positions
     After inserting an unambiguous string into the command line, the
     new function based completion system may know about multiple places
     in this string where characters are missing or differ from at least
     one of the possible matches.  It will then place the cursor on the
     position it considers to be the most interesting one, i.e.  the one
     where one can disambiguate between as many matches as possible with
     as little typing as possible.

     This widget allows the cursor to be easily moved to the other
     interesting spots.  It can be invoked repeatedly to cycle between
     all positions reported by the completion system.

delete-whole-word-match
     This is another function which works like the -match functions
     described immediately above, i.e.  using styles to decide the word
     boundaries.  However, it is not a replacement for any existing
     function.

     The basic behaviour is to delete the word around the cursor.  There
     is no numeric argument handling; only the single word around the
     cursor is considered.  If the widget contains the string kill, the
     removed text will be placed in the cutbuffer for future yanking.
     This can be obtained by defining kill-whole-word-match as follows:

          zle -N kill-whole-word-match delete-whole-word-match

     and then binding the widget kill-whole-word-match.

up-line-or-beginning-search, down-line-or-beginning-search
     These widgets are similar to the builtin functions
     up-line-or-search and down-line-or-search: if in a multiline buffer
     they move up or down within the buffer, otherwise they search for a
     history line matching the start of the current line.  In this case,
     however, they search for a line which matches the current line up
     to the current cursor position, in the manner of
     history-beginning-search-backward and -forward, rather than the
     first word on the line.

edit-command-line
     Edit the command line using your visual editor, as in ksh.

          bindkey -M vicmd v edit-command-line

expand-absolute-path
     Expand the file name under the cursor to an absolute path,
     resolving symbolic links.  Where possible, the initial path segment
     is turned into a named directory or reference to a user's home
     directory.

history-search-end
     This function implements the widgets
     history-beginning-search-backward-end and
     history-beginning-search-forward-end.  These commands work by first
     calling the corresponding builtin widget (see *note History
     Control::) and then moving the cursor to the end of the line.  The
     original cursor position is remembered and restored before calling
     the builtin widget a second time, so that the same search is
     repeated to look farther through the history.

     Although you autoload only one function, the commands to use it are
     slightly different because it implements two widgets.

          zle -N history-beginning-search-backward-end \
                 history-search-end
          zle -N history-beginning-search-forward-end \
                 history-search-end
          bindkey '\e^P' history-beginning-search-backward-end
          bindkey '\e^N' history-beginning-search-forward-end

history-beginning-search-menu
     This function implements yet another form of history searching.
     The text before the cursor is used to select lines from the
     history, as for history-beginning-search-backward except that all
     matches are shown in a numbered menu.  Typing the appropriate
     digits inserts the full history line.  Note that leading zeroes
     must be typed (they are only shown when necessary for removing
     ambiguity).  The entire history is searched; there is no
     distinction between forwards and backwards.

     With a numeric argument, the search is not anchored to the start of
     the line; the string typed by the use may appear anywhere in the
     line in the history.

     If the widget name contains '-end' the cursor is moved to the end
     of the line inserted.  If the widget name contains '-space' any
     space in the text typed is treated as a wildcard and can match
     anything (hence a leading space is equivalent to giving a numeric
     argument).  Both forms can be combined, for example:

          zle -N history-beginning-search-menu-space-end \
                 history-beginning-search-menu

history-pattern-search
     The function history-pattern-search implements widgets which prompt
     for a pattern with which to search the history backwards or
     forwards.  The pattern is in the usual zsh format, however the
     first character may be ^ to anchor the search to the start of the
     line, and the last character may be $ to anchor the search to the
     end of the line.  If the search was not anchored to the end of the
     line the cursor is positioned just after the pattern found.

     The commands to create bindable widgets are similar to those in the
     example immediately above:

          autoload -U history-pattern-search
          zle -N history-pattern-search-backward history-pattern-search
          zle -N history-pattern-search-forward history-pattern-search

incarg
     Typing the keystrokes for this widget with the cursor placed on or
     to the left of an integer causes that integer to be incremented by
     one.  With a numeric argument, the number is incremented by the
     amount of the argument (decremented if the numeric argument is
     negative).  The shell parameter incarg may be set to change the
     default increment to something other than one.

          bindkey '^X+' incarg

incremental-complete-word
     This allows incremental completion of a word.  After starting this
     command, a list of completion choices can be shown after every
     character you type, which you can delete with ^H or DEL.  Pressing
     return accepts the completion so far and returns you to normal
     editing (that is, the command line is _not_ immediately executed).
     You can hit TAB to do normal completion, ^G to abort back to the
     state when you started, and ^D to list the matches.

     This works only with the new function based completion system.

          bindkey '^Xi' incremental-complete-word

insert-composed-char
     This function allows you to compose characters that don't appear on
     the keyboard to be inserted into the command line.  The command is
     followed by two keys corresponding to ASCII characters (there is no
     prompt).  For accented characters, the two keys are a base
     character followed by a code for the accent, while for other
     special characters the two characters together form a mnemonic for
     the character to be inserted.  The two-character codes are a subset
     of those given by RFC 1345 (see for example
     <http://www.faqs.org/rfcs/rfc1345.html>).

     The function may optionally be followed by up to two characters
     which replace one or both of the characters read from the keyboard;
     if both characters are supplied, no input is read.  For example,
     insert-composed-char a: can be used within a widget to insert an a
     with umlaut into the command line.  This has the advantages over
     use of a literal character that it is more portable.

     For best results zsh should have been built with support for
     multibyte characters (configured with --enable-multibyte); however,
     the function works for the limited range of characters available in
     single-byte character sets such as ISO-8859-1.

     The character is converted into the local representation and
     inserted into the command line at the cursor position.  (The
     conversion is done within the shell, using whatever facilities the
     C library provides.)  With a numeric argument, the character and
     its code are previewed in the status line

     The function may be run outside zle in which case it prints the
     character (together with a newline) to standard output.  Input is
     still read from keystrokes.

     See insert-unicode-char for an alternative way of inserting Unicode
     characters using their hexadecimal character number.

     The set of accented characters is reasonably complete up to Unicode
     character U+0180, the set of special characters less so.  However,
     it is very sporadic from that point.  Adding new characters is
     easy, however; see the function define-composed-chars.  Please send
     any additions to zsh-workers@zsh.org.

     The codes for the second character when used to accent the first
     are as follows.  Note that not every character can take every
     accent.
     !
          Grave.
     '
          Acute.
     >
          Circumflex.
     ?
          Tilde.  (This is not ~ as RFC 1345 does not assume that
          character is present on the keyboard.)
     -
          Macron.  (A horizontal bar over the base character.)
     (
          Breve.  (A shallow dish shape over the base character.)
     .
          Dot above the base character, or in the case of i no dot, or
          in the case of L and l a centered dot.
     :
          Diaeresis (Umlaut).
     c
          Cedilla.
     _
          Underline, however there are currently no underlined
          characters.
     /
          Stroke through the base character.
     "
          Double acute (only supported on a few letters).
     ;
          Ogonek.  (A little forward facing hook at the bottom right of
          the character.)
     <
          Caron.  (A little v over the letter.)
     0
          Circle over the base character.
     2
          Hook over the base character.
     9
          Horn over the base character.

     The most common characters from the Arabic, Cyrillic, Greek and
     Hebrew alphabets are available; consult RFC 1345 for the
     appropriate sequences.  In addition, a set of two letter codes not
     in RFC 1345 are available for the double-width characters
     corresponding to ASCII characters from ! to ~ (0x21 to 0x7e) by
     preceding the character with ^, for example ^A for a double-width
     A.

     The following other two-character sequences are understood.

     ASCII characters
          These are already present on most keyboards:
          <(
               Left square bracket
          //
               Backslash (solidus)
          )>
               Right square bracket
          (!
               Left brace (curly bracket)
          !!
               Vertical bar (pipe symbol)
          !)
               Right brace (curly bracket)
          '?
               Tilde

     Special letters
          Characters found in various variants of the Latin alphabet:
          ss
               Eszett (scharfes S)
          D-, d-
               Eth
          TH, th
               Thorn
          kk
               Kra
          'n
               'n
          NG, ng
               Ng
          OI, oi
               Oi
          yr
               yr
          ED
               ezh

     Currency symbols
          Ct
               Cent
          Pd
               Pound sterling (also lira and others)
          Cu
               Currency
          Ye
               Yen
          Eu
               Euro (N.B. not in RFC 1345)

     Punctuation characters
          References to "right" quotes indicate the shape (like a 9
          rather than 6) rather than their grammatical use.  (For
          example, a "right" low double quote is used to open quotations
          in German.)
          !I
               Inverted exclamation mark
          BB
               Broken vertical bar
          SE
               Section
          Co
               Copyright
          -a
               Spanish feminine ordinal indicator
          <<
               Left guillemet
          --
               Soft hyphen
          Rg
               Registered trade mark
          PI
               Pilcrow (paragraph)
          -o
               Spanish masculine ordinal indicator
          >>
               Right guillemet
          ?I
               Inverted question mark
          -1
               Hyphen
          -N
               En dash
          -M
               Em dash
          -3
               Horizontal bar
          :3
               Vertical ellipsis
          .3
               Horizontal midline ellipsis
          !2
               Double vertical line
          =2
               Double low line
          '6
               Left single quote
          '9
               Right single quote
          .9
               "Right" low quote
          9'
               Reversed "right" quote
          "6
               Left double quote
          "9
               Right double quote
          :9
               "Right" low double quote
          9"
               Reversed "right" double quote
          /-
               Dagger
          /=
               Double dagger

     Mathematical symbols
          DG
               Degree
          -2, +-, -+
               - sign, +/- sign, -/+ sign
          2S
               Superscript 2
          3S
               Superscript 3
          1S
               Superscript 1
          My
               Micro
          .M
               Middle dot
          14
               Quarter
          12
               Half
          34
               Three quarters
          *X
               Multiplication
          -:
               Division
          %0
               Per mille
          FA, TE, /0
               For all, there exists, empty set
          dP, DE, NB
               Partial derivative, delta (increment), del (nabla)
          (-, -)
               Element of, contains
          *P, +Z
               Product, sum
          *-, Ob, Sb
               Asterisk, ring, bullet
          RT, 0(, 00
               Root sign, proportional to, infinity

     Other symbols
          cS, cH, cD, cC
               Card suits: spades, hearts, diamonds, clubs
          Md, M8, M2, Mb, Mx, MX
               Musical notation: crotchet (quarter note), quaver (eighth
               note), semiquavers (sixteenth notes), flag sign, natural
               sign, sharp sign
          Fm, Ml
               Female, male

     Accents on their own
          '>
               Circumflex (same as caret, ^)
          '!
               Grave (same as backtick, `)
          ',
               Cedilla
          ':
               Diaeresis (Umlaut)
          'm
               Macron
          ''
               Acute

insert-files
     This function allows you type a file pattern, and see the results
     of the expansion at each step.  When you hit return, all expansions
     are inserted into the command line.

          bindkey '^Xf' insert-files

insert-unicode-char
     When first executed, the user inputs a set of hexadecimal digits.
     This is terminated with another call to insert-unicode-char.  The
     digits are then turned into the corresponding Unicode character.
     For example, if the widget is bound to ^XU, the character sequence
     '^XU 4 c ^XU' inserts L (Unicode U+004c).

     See insert-composed-char for a way of inserting characters using a
     two-character mnemonic.

narrow-to-region [ -p PRE ] [ -P POST ]
                 [ -S STATEPM | -R STATEPM | [ -l LBUFVAR ] [ -r RBUFVAR ] ]
                 [ -n ] [ START END ]
narrow-to-region-invisible
     Narrow the editable portion of the buffer to the region between the
     cursor and the mark, which may be in either order.  The region may
     not be empty.

     narrow-to-region may be used as a widget or called as a function
     from a user-defined widget; by default, the text outside the
     editable area remains visible.  A recursive-edit is performed and
     the original widening status is then restored.  Various options and
     arguments are available when it is called as a function.

     The options -p PRETEXT and -P POSTTEXT may be used to replace the
     text before and after the display for the duration of the function;
     either or both may be an empty string.

     If the option -n is also given, PRETEXT or POSTTEXT will only be
     inserted if there is text before or after the region respectively
     which will be made invisible.

     Two numeric arguments may be given which will be used instead of
     the cursor and mark positions.

     The option -S STATEPM is used to narrow according to the other
     options while saving the original state in the parameter with name
     STATEPM, while the option -R STATEPM is used to restore the state
     from the parameter; note in both cases the _name_ of the parameter
     is required.  In the second case, other options and arguments are
     irrelevant.  When this method is used, no recursive-edit is
     performed; the calling widget should call this function with the
     option -S, perform its own editing on the command line or pass
     control to the user via 'zle recursive-edit', then call this
     function with the option -R.  The argument STATEPM must be a
     suitable name for an ordinary parameter, except that parameters
     beginning with the prefix _ntr_ are reserved for use within
     narrow-to-region.  Typically the parameter will be local to the
     calling function.

     The options -l LBUFVAR and -r RBUFVAR may be used to specify
     parameters where the widget will store the resulting text from the
     operation.  The parameter LBUFVAR will contain LBUFFER and RBUFVAR
     will contain RBUFFER.  Neither of these two options may be used
     with -S or -R.

     narrow-to-region-invisible is a simple widget which calls
     narrow-to-region with arguments which replace any text outside the
     region with '...'.  It does not take any arguments.

     The display is restored (and the widget returns) upon any zle
     command which would usually cause the line to be accepted or
     aborted.  Hence an additional such command is required to accept or
     abort the current line.

     The return status of both widgets is zero if the line was accepted,
     else non-zero.

     Here is a trivial example of a widget using this feature.
          local state
          narrow-to-region -p $'Editing restricted region\n' \
            -P '' -S state
          zle recursive-edit
          narrow-to-region -R state

predict-on
     This set of functions implements predictive typing using history
     search.  After predict-on, typing characters causes the editor to
     look backward in the history for the first line beginning with what
     you have typed so far.  After predict-off, editing returns to
     normal for the line found.  In fact, you often don't even need to
     use predict-off, because if the line doesn't match something in the
     history, adding a key performs standard completion, and then
     inserts itself if no completions were found.  However, editing in
     the middle of a line is liable to confuse prediction; see the
     toggle style below.

     With the function based completion system (which is needed for
     this), you should be able to type TAB at almost any point to
     advance the cursor to the next ''interesting'' character position
     (usually the end of the current word, but sometimes somewhere in
     the middle of the word).  And of course as soon as the entire line
     is what you want, you can accept with return, without needing to
     move the cursor to the end first.

     The first time predict-on is used, it creates several additional
     widget functions:

     delete-backward-and-predict
          Replaces the backward-delete-char widget.  You do not need to
          bind this yourself.
     insert-and-predict
          Implements predictive typing by replacing the self-insert
          widget.  You do not need to bind this yourself.
     predict-off
          Turns off predictive typing.

     Although you autoload only the predict-on function, it is necessary
     to create a keybinding for predict-off as well.

          zle -N predict-on
          zle -N predict-off
          bindkey '^X^Z' predict-on
          bindkey '^Z' predict-off

read-from-minibuffer
     This is most useful when called as a function from inside a widget,
     but will work correctly as a widget in its own right.  It prompts
     for a value below the current command line; a value may be input
     using all of the standard zle operations (and not merely the
     restricted set available when executing, for example,
     execute-named-cmd).  The value is then returned to the calling
     function in the parameter $REPLY and the editing buffer restored to
     its previous state.  If the read was aborted by a keyboard break
     (typically ^G), the function returns status 1 and $REPLY is not
     set.

     If one argument is supplied to the function it is taken as a
     prompt, otherwise '? ' is used.  If two arguments are supplied,
     they are the prompt and the initial value of $LBUFFER, and if a
     third argument is given it is the initial value of $RBUFFER.  This
     provides a default value and starting cursor placement.  Upon
     return the entire buffer is the value of $REPLY.

     One option is available: '-k NUM' specifies that NUM characters are
     to be read instead of a whole line.  The line editor is not invoked
     recursively in this case, so depending on the terminal settings the
     input may not be visible, and only the input keys are placed in
     $REPLY, not the entire buffer.  Note that unlike the read builtin
     NUM must be given; there is no default.

     The name is a slight misnomer, as in fact the shell's own
     minibuffer is not used.  Hence it is still possible to call
     executed-named-cmd and similar functions while reading a value.

replace-argument, replace-argument-edit
     The function replace-argument can be used to replace a command line
     argument in the current command line or, if the current command
     line is empty, in the last command line executed (the new command
     line is not executed).  Arguments are as delimited by standard
     shell syntax,

     If a numeric argument is given, that specifies the argument to be
     replaced.  0 means the command name, as in history expansion.  A
     negative numeric argument counts backward from the last word.

     If no numeric argument is given, the current argument is replaced;
     this is the last argument if the previous history line is being
     used.

     The function prompts for a replacement argument.

     If the widget contains the string edit, for example is defined as

          zle -N replace-argument-edit replace-argument

     then the function presents the current value of the argument for
     editing, otherwise the editing buffer for the replacement is
     initially empty.

replace-string, replace-pattern
replace-string-again, replace-pattern-again
     The function replace-string implements three widgets.  If defined
     under the same name as the function, it prompts for two strings;
     the first (source) string will be replaced by the second everywhere
     it occurs in the line editing buffer.

     If the widget name contains the word 'pattern', for example by
     defining the widget using the command 'zle -N replace-pattern
     replace-string', then the matching is performed using zsh patterns.
     All zsh extended globbing patterns can be used in the source
     string; note that unlike filename generation the pattern does not
     need to match an entire word, nor do glob qualifiers have any
     effect.  In addition, the replacement string can contain parameter
     or command substitutions.  Furthermore, a '&' in the replacement
     string will be replaced with the matched source string, and a
     backquoted digit '\N' will be replaced by the Nth parenthesised
     expression matched.  The form '\{N}' may be used to protect the
     digit from following digits.

     If the widget instead contains the word 'regex' (or 'regexp'), then
     the matching is performed using regular expressions, respecting the
     setting of the option RE_MATCH_PCRE (see the description of the
     function regexp-replace below).  The special replacement facilities
     described above for pattern matching are available.

     By default the previous source or replacement string will not be
     offered for editing.  However, this feature can be activated by
     setting the style edit-previous in the context :zle:WIDGET (for
     example, :zle:replace-string) to true.  In addition, a positive
     numeric argument forces the previous values to be offered, a
     negative or zero argument forces them not to be.

     The function replace-string-again can be used to repeat the
     previous replacement; no prompting is done.  As with
     replace-string, if the name of the widget contains the word
     'pattern' or 'regex', pattern or regular expression matching is
     performed, else a literal string replacement.  Note that the
     previous source and replacement text are the same whether pattern,
     regular expression or string matching is used.

     In addition, replace-string shows the previous replacement above
     the prompt, so long as there was one during the current session; if
     the source string is empty, that replacement will be repeated
     without the widget prompting for a replacement string.

     For example, starting from the line:

          print This line contains fan and fond

     and invoking replace-pattern with the source string 'f(?)n' and the
     replacement string 'c\1r' produces the not very useful line:

          print This line contains car and cord

     The range of the replacement string can be limited by using the
     narrow-to-region-invisible widget.  One limitation of the current
     version is that undo will cycle through changes to the replacement
     and source strings before undoing the replacement itself.

send-invisible
     This is similar to read-from-minibuffer in that it may be called as
     a function from a widget or as a widget of its own, and
     interactively reads input from the keyboard.  However, the input
     being typed is concealed and a string of asterisks ('*') is shown
     instead.  The value is saved in the parameter $INVISIBLE to which a
     reference is inserted into the editing buffer at the restored
     cursor position.  If the read was aborted by a keyboard break
     (typically ^G) or another escape from editing such as push-line,
     $INVISIBLE is set to empty and the original buffer is restored
     unchanged.

     If one argument is supplied to the function it is taken as a
     prompt, otherwise 'Non-echoed text: ' is used (as in emacs).  If a
     second and third argument are supplied they are used to begin and
     end the reference to $INVISIBLE that is inserted into the buffer.
     The default is to open with ${, then INVISIBLE, and close with },
     but many other effects are possible.

smart-insert-last-word
     This function may replace the insert-last-word widget, like so:

          zle -N insert-last-word smart-insert-last-word

     With a numeric argument, or when passed command line arguments in a
     call from another widget, it behaves like insert-last-word, except
     that words in comments are ignored when INTERACTIVE_COMMENTS is
     set.

     Otherwise, the rightmost ''interesting'' word from the previous
     command is found and inserted.  The default definition of
     ''interesting'' is that the word contains at least one alphabetic
     character, slash, or backslash.  This definition may be overridden
     by use of the match style.  The context used to look up the style
     is the widget name, so usually the context is :insert-last-word.
     However, you can bind this function to different widgets to use
     different patterns:

          zle -N insert-last-assignment smart-insert-last-word
          zstyle :insert-last-assignment match '[[:alpha:]][][[:alnum:]]#=*'
          bindkey '\e=' insert-last-assignment

     If no interesting word is found and the auto-previous style is set
     to a true value, the search continues upward through the history.
     When auto-previous is unset or false (the default), the widget must
     be invoked repeatedly in order to search earlier history lines.

transpose-lines
     Only useful with a multi-line editing buffer; the lines here are
     lines within the current on-screen buffer, not history lines.  The
     effect is similar to the function of the same name in Emacs.

     Transpose the current line with the previous line and move the
     cursor to the start of the next line.  Repeating this (which can be
     done by providing a positive numeric argument) has the effect of
     moving the line above the cursor down by a number of lines.

     With a negative numeric argument, requires two lines above the
     cursor.  These two lines are transposed and the cursor moved to the
     start of the previous line.  Using a numeric argument less than -1
     has the effect of moving the line above the cursor up by minus that
     number of lines.

url-quote-magic
     This widget replaces the built-in self-insert to make it easier to
     type URLs as command line arguments.  As you type, the input
     character is analyzed and, if it may need quoting, the current word
     is checked for a URI scheme.  If one is found and the current word
     is not already in quotes, a backslash is inserted before the input
     character.

     Styles to control quoting behavior:

     url-metas
          This style is looked up in the context
          ':url-quote-magic:SCHEME' (where SCHEME is that of the current
          URL, e.g.  "ftp").  The value is a string listing the
          characters to be treated as globbing metacharacters when
          appearing in a URL using that scheme.  The default is to quote
          all zsh extended globbing characters, excluding '<' and '>'
          but including braces (as in brace expansion).  See also
          url-seps.

     url-seps
          Like url-metas, but lists characters that should be considered
          command separators, redirections, history references, etc.
          The default is to quote the standard set of shell separators,
          excluding those that overlap with the extended globbing
          characters, but including '<' and '>' and the first character
          of $histchars.

     url-globbers
          This style is looked up in the context ':url-quote-magic'.
          The values form a list of command names that are expected to
          do their own globbing on the URL string.  This implies that
          they are aliased to use the 'noglob' modifier.  When the first
          word on the line matches one of the values _and_ the URL
          refers to a local file (see url-local-schema), only the
          url-seps characters are quoted; the url-metas are left alone,
          allowing them to affect command-line parsing, completion, etc.
          The default values are a literal 'noglob' plus (when the
          zsh/parameter module is available) any commands aliased to the
          helper function 'urlglobber' or its alias 'globurl'.

     url-local-schema
          This style is always looked up in the context ':urlglobber',
          even though it is used by both url-quote-magic and urlglobber.
          The values form a list of URI schema that should be treated as
          referring to local files by their real local path names, as
          opposed to files which are specified relative to a
          web-server-defined document root.  The defaults are "ftp" and
          "file".

     url-other-schema
          Like url-local-schema, but lists all other URI schema upon
          which urlglobber and url-quote-magic should act.  If the URI
          on the command line does not have a scheme appearing either in
          this list or in url-local-schema, it is not magically quoted.
          The default values are "http", "https", and "ftp".  When a
          scheme appears both here and in url-local-schema, it is quoted
          differently depending on whether the command name appears in
          url-globbers.

     Loading url-quote-magic also defines a helper function 'urlglobber'
     and aliases 'globurl' to 'noglob urlglobber'.  This function takes
     a local URL apart, attempts to pattern-match the local file portion
     of the URL path, and then puts the results back into URL format
     again.

vi-pipe
     This function reads a movement command from the keyboard and then
     prompts for an external command.  The part of the buffer covered by
     the movement is piped to the external command and then replaced by
     the command's output.  If the movement command is bound to vi-pipe,
     the current line is used.

     The function serves as an example for reading a vi movement command
     from within a user-defined widget.

which-command
     This function is a drop-in replacement for the builtin widget
     which-command.  It has enhanced behaviour, in that it correctly
     detects whether or not the command word needs to be expanded as an
     alias; if so, it continues tracing the command word from the
     expanded alias until it reaches the command that will be executed.

     The style whence is available in the context :zle:$WIDGET; this may
     be set to an array to give the command and options that will be
     used to investigate the command word found.  The default is whence
     -c.

zcalc-auto-insert
     This function is useful together with the zcalc function described
     in *note Mathematical Functions::.  It should be bound to a key
     representing a binary operator such as '+', '-', '*' or '/'.  When
     running in zcalc, if the key occurs at the start of the line or
     immediately following an open parenthesis, the text "ans " is
     inserted before the representation of the key itself.  This allows
     easy use of the answer from the previous calculation in the current
     line.  The text to be inserted before the symbol typed can be
     modified by setting the variable ZCALC_AUTO_INSERT_PREFIX.

     Hence, for example, typing '+12' followed by return adds 12 to the
     previous result.

     If zcalc is in RPN mode (-r option) the effect of this binding is
     automatically suppressed as operators alone on a line are
     meaningful.

     When not in zcalc, the key simply inserts the symbol itself.


26.7.2 Utility Functions
------------------------


These functions are useful in constructing widgets.  They should be
loaded with 'autoload -U FUNCTION' and called as indicated from
user-defined widgets.

split-shell-arguments
     This function splits the line currently being edited into shell
     arguments and whitespace.  The result is stored in the array reply.
     The array contains all the parts of the line in order, starting
     with any whitespace before the first argument, and finishing with
     any whitespace after the last argument.  Hence (so long as the
     option KSH_ARRAYS is not set) whitespace is given by odd indices in
     the array and arguments by even indices.  Note that no stripping of
     quotes is done; joining together all the elements of reply in order
     is guaranteed to produce the original line.

     The parameter REPLY is set to the index of the word in reply which
     contains the character after the cursor, where the first element
     has index 1.  The parameter REPLY2 is set to the index of the
     character under the cursor in that word, where the first character
     has index 1.

     Hence reply, REPLY and REPLY2 should all be made local to the
     enclosing function.

     See the function modify-current-argument, described below, for an
     example of how to call this function.

modify-current-argument [ EXPR-USING-$ARG | FUNC ]
     This function provides a simple method of allowing user-defined
     widgets to modify the command line argument under the cursor (or
     immediately to the left of the cursor if the cursor is between
     arguments).

     The argument can be an expression which when evaluated operates on
     the shell parameter ARG, which will have been set to the command
     line argument under the cursor.  The expression should be suitably
     quoted to prevent it being evaluated too early.

     Alternatively, if the argument does not contain the string ARG, it
     is assumed to be a shell function, to which the current command
     line argument is passed as the only argument.  The function should
     set the variable REPLY to the new value for the command line
     argument.  If the function returns non-zero status, so does the
     calling function.

     For example, a user-defined widget containing the following code
     converts the characters in the argument under the cursor into all
     upper case:

          modify-current-argument '${(U)ARG}'

     The following strips any quoting from the current word (whether
     backslashes or one of the styles of quotes), and replaces it with
     single quoting throughout:

          modify-current-argument '${(qq)${(Q)ARG}}'

     The following performs directory expansion on the command line
     argument and replaces it by the absolute path:

          expand-dir() {
            REPLY=${~1}
            REPLY=${REPLY:a}
          }
          modify-current-argument expand-dir

     In practice the function expand-dir would probably not be defined
     within the widget where modify-current-argument is called.


26.7.3 Styles
-------------


The behavior of several of the above widgets can be controlled by the
use of the zstyle mechanism.  In particular, widgets that interact with
the completion system pass along their context to any completions that
they invoke.

break-keys
     This style is used by the incremental-complete-word widget.  Its
     value should be a pattern, and all keys matching this pattern will
     cause the widget to stop incremental completion without the key
     having any further effect.  Like all styles used directly by
     incremental-complete-word, this style is looked up using the
     context ':incremental'.

completer
     The incremental-complete-word and insert-and-predict widgets set up
     their top-level context name before calling completion.  This
     allows one to define different sets of completer functions for
     normal completion and for these widgets.  For example, to use
     completion, approximation and correction for normal completion,
     completion and correction for incremental completion and only
     completion for prediction one could use:

          zstyle ':completion:*' completer \
                  _complete _correct _approximate
          zstyle ':completion:incremental:*' completer \
                  _complete _correct
          zstyle ':completion:predict:*' completer \
                  _complete

     It is a good idea to restrict the completers used in prediction,
     because they may be automatically invoked as you type.  The _list
     and _menu completers should never be used with prediction.  The
     _approximate, _correct, _expand, and _match completers may be used,
     but be aware that they may change characters anywhere in the word
     behind the cursor, so you need to watch carefully that the result
     is what you intended.

cursor
     The insert-and-predict widget uses this style, in the context
     ':predict', to decide where to place the cursor after completion
     has been tried.  Values are:

     complete
          The cursor is left where it was when completion finished, but
          only if it is after a character equal to the one just inserted
          by the user.  If it is after another character, this value is
          the same as 'key'.

     key
          The cursor is left after the Nth occurrence of the character
          just inserted, where N is the number of times that character
          appeared in the word before completion was attempted.  In
          short, this has the effect of leaving the cursor after the
          character just typed even if the completion code found out
          that no other characters need to be inserted at that position.

     Any other value for this style unconditionally leaves the cursor at
     the position where the completion code left it.

list
     When using the incremental-complete-word widget, this style says if
     the matches should be listed on every key press (if they fit on the
     screen).  Use the context prefix ':completion:incremental'.

     The insert-and-predict widget uses this style to decide if the
     completion should be shown even if there is only one possible
     completion.  This is done if the value of this style is the string
     always.  In this case the context is ':predict' (_not_
     ':completion:predict').

match
     This style is used by smart-insert-last-word to provide a pattern
     (using full EXTENDED_GLOB syntax) that matches an interesting word.
     The context is the name of the widget to which
     smart-insert-last-word is bound (see above).  The default behavior
     of smart-insert-last-word is equivalent to:

          zstyle :insert-last-word match '*[[:alpha:]/\\]*'

     However, you might want to include words that contain spaces:

          zstyle :insert-last-word match '*[[:alpha:][:space:]/\\]*'

     Or include numbers as long as the word is at least two characters
     long:

          zstyle :insert-last-word match '*([[:digit:]]?|[[:alpha:]/\\])*'

     The above example causes redirections like "2>" to be included.

prompt
     The incremental-complete-word widget shows the value of this style
     in the status line during incremental completion.  The string value
     may contain any of the following substrings in the manner of the
     PS1 and other prompt parameters:

     %c
          Replaced by the name of the completer function that generated
          the matches (without the leading underscore).

     %l
          When the list style is set, replaced by '...' if the list of
          matches is too long to fit on the screen and with an empty
          string otherwise.  If the list style is 'false' or not set,
          '%l' is always removed.

     %n
          Replaced by the number of matches generated.

     %s
          Replaced by '-no match-', '-no prefix-', or an empty string if
          there is no completion matching the word on the line, if the
          matches have no common prefix different from the word on the
          line, or if there is such a common prefix, respectively.

     %u
          Replaced by the unambiguous part of all matches, if there is
          any, and if it is different from the word on the line.

     Like 'break-keys', this uses the ':incremental' context.

stop-keys
     This style is used by the incremental-complete-word widget.  Its
     value is treated similarly to the one for the break-keys style (and
     uses the same context: ':incremental').  However, in this case all
     keys matching the pattern given as its value will stop incremental
     completion and will then execute their usual function.

toggle
     This boolean style is used by predict-on and its related widgets in
     the context ':predict'.  If set to one of the standard 'true'
     values, predictive typing is automatically toggled off in
     situations where it is unlikely to be useful, such as when editing
     a multi-line buffer or after moving into the middle of a line and
     then deleting a character.  The default is to leave prediction
     turned on until an explicit call to predict-off.

verbose
     This boolean style is used by predict-on and its related widgets in
     the context ':predict'.  If set to one of the standard 'true'
     values, these widgets display a message below the prompt when the
     predictive state is toggled.  This is most useful in combination
     with the toggle style.  The default does not display these
     messages.

widget
     This style is similar to the command style: For widget functions
     that use zle to call other widgets, this style can sometimes be
     used to override the widget which is called.  The context for this
     style is the name of the calling widget (_not_ the name of the
     calling function, because one function may be bound to multiple
     widget names).

          zstyle :copy-earlier-word widget smart-insert-last-word

     Check the documentation for the calling widget or function to
     determine whether the widget style is used.


File: zsh.info,  Node: Exception Handling,  Next: MIME Functions,  Prev: ZLE Functions,  Up: User Contributions

