26.9 MIME Functions
===================


Three functions are available to provide handling of files recognised by
extension, for example to dispatch a file text.ps when executed as a
command to an appropriate viewer.

zsh-mime-setup [ -fv ] [ -l [ SUFFIX ... ] ]
zsh-mime-handler [ -l ] COMMAND ARGUMENT ...
     These two functions use the files ~/.mime.types and
     /etc/mime.types, which associate types and extensions, as well as
     ~/.mailcap and /etc/mailcap files, which associate types and the
     programs that handle them.  These are provided on many systems with
     the Multimedia Internet Mail Extensions.

     To enable the system, the function zsh-mime-setup should be
     autoloaded and run.  This allows files with extensions to be
     treated as executable; such files be completed by the function
     completion system.  The function zsh-mime-handler should not need
     to be called by the user.

     The system works by setting up suffix aliases with 'alias -s'.
     Suffix aliases already installed by the user will not be
     overwritten.

     For suffixes defined in lower case, upper case variants will also
     automatically be handled (e.g.  PDF is automatically handled if
     handling for the suffix pdf is defined), but not vice versa.

     Repeated calls to zsh-mime-setup do not override the existing
     mapping between suffixes and executable files unless the option -f
     is given.  Note, however, that this does not override existing
     suffix aliases assigned to handlers other than zsh-mime-handler.

     Calling zsh-mime-setup with the option -l lists the existing
     mappings without altering them.  Suffixes to list (which may
     contain pattern characters that should be quoted from immediate
     interpretation on the command line) may be given as additional
     arguments, otherwise all suffixes are listed.

     Calling zsh-mime-setup with the option -v causes verbose output to
     be shown during the setup operation.

     The system respects the mailcap flags needsterminal and
     copiousoutput, see man page mailcap(4).

     The functions use the following styles, which are defined with the
     zstyle builtin command (*note The zsh/zutil Module::).  They should
     be defined before zsh-mime-setup is run.  The contexts used all
     start with :mime:, with additional components in some cases.  It is
     recommended that a trailing * (suitably quoted) be appended to
     style patterns in case the system is extended in future.  Some
     examples are given below.

     For files that have multiple suffixes, e.g.  .pdf.gz, where the
     context includes the suffix it will be looked up starting with the
     longest possible suffix until a match for the style is found.  For
     example, if .pdf.gz produces a match for the handler, that will be
     used; otherwise the handler for .gz will be used.  Note that, owing
     to the way suffix aliases work, it is always required that there be
     a handler for the shortest possible suffix, so in this example
     .pdf.gz can only be handled if .gz is also handled (though not
     necessarily in the same way).  Alternatively, if no handling for
     .gz on its own is needed, simply adding the command

          alias -s gz=zsh-mime-handler

     to the initialisation code is sufficient; .gz will not be handled
     on its own, but may be in combination with other suffixes.

     current-shell
          If this boolean style is true, the mailcap handler for the
          context in question is run using the eval builtin instead of
          by starting a new sh process.  This is more efficient, but may
          not work in the occasional cases where the mailcap handler
          uses strict POSIX syntax.

     disown
          If this boolean style is true, mailcap handlers started in the
          background will be disowned, i.e.  not subject to job control
          within the parent shell.  Such handlers nearly always produce
          their own windows, so the only likely harmful side effect of
          setting the style is that it becomes harder to kill jobs from
          within the shell.

     execute-as-is
          This style gives a list of patterns to be matched against
          files passed for execution with a handler program.  If the
          file matches the pattern, the entire command line is executed
          in its current form, with no handler.  This is useful for
          files which might have suffixes but nonetheless be executable
          in their own right.  If the style is not set, the pattern *(*)
          *(/) is used; hence executable files are executed directly and
          not passed to a handler, and the option AUTO_CD may be used to
          change to directories that happen to have MIME suffixes.

     execute-never
          This style is useful in combination with execute-as-is.  It is
          set to an array of patterns corresponding to full paths to
          files that should never be treated as executable, even if the
          file passed to the MIME handler matches execute-as-is.  This
          is useful for file systems that don't handle execute
          permission or that contain executables from another operating
          system.  For example, if /mnt/windows is a Windows mount, then

               zstyle ':mime:*' execute-never '/mnt/windows/*'

          will ensure that any files found in that area will be executed
          as MIME types even if they are executable.  As this example
          shows, the complete file name is matched against the pattern,
          regardless of how the file was passed to the handler.  The
          file is resolved to a full path using the :P modifier
          described in *note Modifiers::; this means that symbolic links
          are resolved where possible, so that links into other file
          systems behave in the correct fashion.

     file-path
          Used if the style find-file-in-path is true for the same
          context.  Set to an array of directories that are used for
          searching for the file to be handled; the default is the
          command path given by the special parameter path.  The shell
          option PATH_DIRS is respected; if that is set, the appropriate
          path will be searched even if the name of the file to be
          handled as it appears on the command line contains a '/'.  The
          full context is :mime:.SUFFIX:, as described for the style
          handler.

     find-file-in-path
          If set, allows files whose names do not contain absolute paths
          to be searched for in the command path or the path specified
          by the file-path style.  If the file is not found in the path,
          it is looked for locally (whether or not the current directory
          is in the path); if it is not found locally, the handler will
          abort unless the handle-nonexistent style is set.  Files found
          in the path are tested as described for the style
          execute-as-is.  The full context is :mime:.SUFFIX:, as
          described for the style handler.

     flags
          Defines flags to go with a handler; the context is as for the
          handler style, and the format is as for the flags in mailcap.

     handle-nonexistent
          By default, arguments that don't correspond to files are not
          passed to the MIME handler in order to prevent it from
          intercepting commands found in the path that happen to have
          suffixes.  This style may be set to an array of extended glob
          patterns for arguments that will be passed to the handler even
          if they don't exist.  If it is not explicitly set it defaults
          to [[:alpha:]]#:/* which allows URLs to be passed to the MIME
          handler even though they don't exist in that format in the
          file system.  The full context is :mime:.SUFFIX:, as described
          for the style handler.

     handler
          Specifies a handler for a suffix; the suffix is given by the
          context as :mime:.SUFFIX:, and the format of the handler is
          exactly that in mailcap.  Note in particular the '.' and
          trailing colon to distinguish this use of the context.  This
          overrides any handler specified by the mailcap files.  If the
          handler requires a terminal, the flags style should be set to
          include the word needsterminal, or if the output is to be
          displayed through a pager (but not if the handler is itself a
          pager), it should include copiousoutput.

     mailcap
          A list of files in the format of ~/.mailcap and /etc/mailcap
          to be read during setup, replacing the default list which
          consists of those two files.  The context is :mime:.  A + in
          the list will be replaced by the default files.

     mailcap-priorities
          This style is used to resolve multiple mailcap entries for the
          same MIME type.  It consists of an array of the following
          elements, in descending order of priority; later entries will
          be used if earlier entries are unable to resolve the entries
          being compared.  If none of the tests resolve the entries, the
          first entry encountered is retained.

          files
               The order of files (entries in the mailcap style) read.
               Earlier files are preferred.  (Note this does not resolve
               entries in the same file.)

          priority
               The priority flag from the mailcap entry.  The priority
               is an integer from 0 to 9 with the default value being 5.

          flags
               The test given by the mailcap-prio-flags option is used
               to resolve entries.

          place
               Later entries are preferred; as the entries are strictly
               ordered, this test always succeeds.

          Note that as this style is handled during initialisation, the
          context is always :mime:, with no discrimination by suffix.

     mailcap-prio-flags
          This style is used when the keyword flags is encountered in
          the list of tests specified by the mailcap-priorities style.
          It should be set to a list of patterns, each of which is
          tested against the flags specified in the mailcap entry (in
          other words, the sets of assignments found with some entries
          in the mailcap file).  Earlier patterns in the list are
          preferred to later ones, and matched patterns are preferred to
          unmatched ones.

     mime-types
          A list of files in the format of ~/.mime.types and
          /etc/mime.types to be read during setup, replacing the default
          list which consists of those two files.  The context is
          :mime:.  A + in the list will be replaced by the default
          files.

     never-background
          If this boolean style is set, the handler for the given
          context is always run in the foreground, even if the flags
          provided in the mailcap entry suggest it need not be (for
          example, it doesn't require a terminal).

     pager
          If set, will be used instead of $PAGER or more to handle
          suffixes where the copiousoutput flag is set.  The context is
          as for handler, i.e.  :mime:.SUFFIX: for handling a file with
          the given SUFFIX.

     Examples:

          zstyle ':mime:*' mailcap ~/.mailcap /usr/local/etc/mailcap
          zstyle ':mime:.txt:' handler less %s
          zstyle ':mime:.txt:' flags needsterminal

     When zsh-mime-setup is subsequently run, it will look for mailcap
     entries in the two files given.  Files of suffix .txt will be
     handled by running 'less FILE.TXT'.  The flag needsterminal is set
     to show that this program must run attached to a terminal.

     As there are several steps to dispatching a command, the following
     should be checked if attempting to execute a file by extension .EXT
     does not have the expected effect.

     The command 'alias -s EXT' should show 'ps=zsh-mime-handler'.  If
     it shows something else, another suffix alias was already installed
     and was not overwritten.  If it shows nothing, no handler was
     installed: this is most likely because no handler was found in the
     .mime.types and mailcap combination for .ext files.  In that case,
     appropriate handling should be added to ~/.mime.types and mailcap.

     If the extension is handled by zsh-mime-handler but the file is not
     opened correctly, either the handler defined for the type is
     incorrect, or the flags associated with it are in appropriate.
     Running zsh-mime-setup -l will show the handler and, if there are
     any, the flags.  A %s in the handler is replaced by the file
     (suitably quoted if necessary).  Check that the handler program
     listed lists and can be run in the way shown.  Also check that the
     flags needsterminal or copiousoutput are set if the handler needs
     to be run under a terminal; the second flag is used if the output
     should be sent to a pager.  An example of a suitable mailcap entry
     for such a program is:

          text/html; /usr/bin/lynx '%s'; needsterminal

     Running 'zsh-mime-handler -l COMMAND LINE' prints the command line
     that would be executed, simplified to remove the effect of any
     flags, and quoted so that the output can be run as a complete zsh
     command line.  This is used by the completion system to decide how
     to complete after a file handled by zsh-mime-setup.

pick-web-browser
     This function is separate from the two MIME functions described
     above and can be assigned directly to a suffix:

          autoload -U pick-web-browser
          alias -s html=pick-web-browser

     It is provided as an intelligent front end to dispatch a web
     browser.  It may be run as either a function or a shell script.
     The status 255 is returned if no browser could be started.

     Various styles are available to customize the choice of browsers:

     browser-style
          The value of the style is an array giving preferences in
          decreasing order for the type of browser to use.  The values
          of elements may be

          running
               Use a GUI browser that is already running when an X
               Window display is available.  The browsers listed in the
               x-browsers style are tried in order until one is found;
               if it is, the file will be displayed in that browser, so
               the user may need to check whether it has appeared.  If
               no running browser is found, one is not started.
               Browsers other than Firefox, Opera and Konqueror are
               assumed to understand the Mozilla syntax for opening a
               URL remotely.

          x
               Start a new GUI browser when an X Window display is
               available.  Search for the availability of one of the
               browsers listed in the x-browsers style and start the
               first one that is found.  No check is made for an already
               running browser.

          tty
               Start a terminal-based browser.  Search for the
               availability of one of the browsers listed in the
               tty-browsers style and start the first one that is found.

          If the style is not set the default running x tty is used.

     x-browsers
          An array in decreasing order of preference of browsers to use
          when running under the X Window System.  The array consists of
          the command name under which to start the browser.  They are
          looked up in the context :mime: (which may be extended in
          future, so appending '*' is recommended).  For example,

               zstyle ':mime:*' x-browsers opera konqueror firefox

          specifies that pick-web-browser should first look for a
          running instance of Opera, Konqueror or Firefox, in that
          order, and if it fails to find any should attempt to start
          Opera.  The default is firefox mozilla netscape opera
          konqueror.

     tty-browsers
          An array similar to x-browsers, except that it gives browsers
          to use when no X Window display is available.  The default is
          elinks links lynx.

     command
          If it is set this style is used to pick the command used to
          open a page for a browser.  The context is
          :mime:browser:new:$browser: to start a new browser or
          :mime:browser:running:$browser: to open a URL in a browser
          already running on the current X display, where $browser is
          the value matched in the x-browsers or tty-browsers style.
          The escape sequence %b in the style's value will be replaced
          by the browser, while %u will be replaced by the URL. If the
          style is not set, the default for all new instances is
          equivalent to %b %u and the defaults for using running
          browsers are equivalent to the values kfmclient openURL %u for
          Konqueror, firefox -new-tab %u for Firefox, opera -newpage %u
          for Opera, and %b -remote "openUrl(%u)" for all others.


File: zsh.info,  Node: Mathematical Functions,  Next: User Configuration Functions,  Prev: MIME Functions,  Up: User Contributions

