Reference Clock Support
       The NTP Version 4 daemon supports some three dozen different radio, satellite and modem reference clocks plus a special pseudo-clock used for backup or when no other clock source
       is available.  Detailed descriptions of individual device drivers and options can be found in the "Reference Clock Drivers" page (available as part of the HTML documentation pro-
       vided in /usr/share/doc/ntp).  Additional information can be found in the pages linked there, including the "Debugging Hints for Reference Clock Drivers" and "How To Write a Ref-
       erence Clock Driver" pages (available as part of the HTML documentation provided in /usr/share/doc/ntp).  In addition, support for a PPS signal is available as described  in  the
       "Pulse-per-second  (PPS)  Signal  Interfacing"  page  (available  as  part  of  the  HTML documentation provided in /usr/share/doc/ntp).  Many drivers support special line disci-
       pline/streams modules which can significantly improve the accuracy using the driver.  These are described in the "Line Disciplines and Streams Drivers" page (available as part of
       the HTML documentation provided in /usr/share/doc/ntp).

       A  reference  clock  will generally (though not always) be a radio timecode receiver which is synchronized to a source of standard time such as the services offered by the NRC in
       Canada and NIST and USNO in the US.  The interface between the computer and the timecode receiver is device dependent, but is usually a serial port.  A device driver specific  to
       each  reference  clock must be selected and compiled in the distribution; however, most common radio, satellite and modem clocks are included by default.  Note that an attempt to
       configure a reference clock when the driver has not been compiled or the hardware port has not been appropriately configured results in a scalding remark to the system log  file,
       but is otherwise non hazardous.

       For  the purposes of configuration, ntpd(8) treats reference clocks in a manner analogous to normal NTP peers as much as possible.  Reference clocks are identified by a syntacti-
       cally correct but invalid IP address, in order to distinguish them from normal NTP peers.  Reference clock addresses are of the form 127.127.t.u, where t is an  integer  denoting
       the  clock  type  and u indicates the unit number in the range 0-3.  While it may seem overkill, it is in fact sometimes useful to configure multiple reference clocks of the same
       type, in which case the unit numbers must be unique.

       The server command is used to configure a reference clock, where the address argument in that command is the clock address.  The key, version and ttl options  are  not  used  for
       reference clock support.  The mode option is added for reference clock support, as described below.  The prefer option can be useful to persuade the server to cherish a reference
       clock with somewhat more enthusiasm than other reference clocks or peers.  Further information on this option can be found in  the  "Mitigation  Rules  and  the  prefer  Keyword"
       (available  as  part of the HTML documentation provided in /usr/share/doc/ntp) page.  The minpoll and maxpoll options have meaning only for selected clock drivers.  See the indi-
       vidual clock driver document pages for additional information.

       The fudge command is used to provide additional information for individual clock drivers and normally follows immediately after the server command.  The address  argument  speci-
       fies  the  clock address.  The refid and stratum options can be used to override the defaults for the device.  There are two optional device-dependent time offsets and four flags
       that can be included in the fudge command as well.

       The stratum number of a reference clock is by default zero.  Since the ntpd(8) daemon adds one to the stratum of each peer, a primary server ordinarily displays an external stra-
       tum of one.  In order to provide engineered backups, it is often useful to specify the reference clock stratum as greater than zero.  The stratum option is used for this purpose.
       Also, in cases involving both a reference clock and a pulse-per-second (PPS) discipline signal, it is useful to specify the reference clock identifier as other than the  default,
       depending on the driver.  The refid option is used for this purpose.  Except where noted, these options apply to all clock drivers.

   Reference Clock Commands
       server 127.127.t.u [prefer] [mode int] [minpoll int] [maxpoll int]
              This command can be used to configure reference clocks in special ways.  The options are interpreted as follows:

              prefer Marks  the  reference clock as preferred.  All other things being equal, this host will be chosen for synchronization among a set of correctly operating hosts.  See
                     the "Mitigation Rules and the prefer Keyword" page (available as part of the HTML documentation provided in /usr/share/doc/ntp) for further information.

              mode int
                     Specifies a mode number which is interpreted in a device-specific fashion.  For instance, it selects a dialing protocol in the ACTS driver and a device  subtype  in
                     the parse drivers.

              minpoll int

              maxpoll int
                     These  options  specify  the  minimum  and  maximum  polling interval for reference clock messages, as a power of 2 in seconds For most directly connected reference
                     clocks, both minpoll and maxpoll default to 6 (64 s).  For modem reference clocks, minpoll defaults to 10 (17.1 m) and maxpoll defaults to 14 (4.5 h).   The  allow-
                     able range is 4 (16 s) to 17 (36.4 h) inclusive.

       fudge 127.127.t.u [time1 sec] [time2 sec] [stratum int] [refid string] [mode int] [flag1 0 | 1] [flag2 0 | 1] [flag3 0 | 1] [flag4 0 | 1]
              This  command  can  be  used to configure reference clocks in special ways.  It must immediately follow the server command which configures the driver.  Note that the same
              capability is possible at run time using the ntpdc(8) program.  The options are interpreted as follows:

              time1 sec
                     Specifies a constant to be added to the time offset produced by the driver, a fixed-point decimal number in seconds.  This is used  as  a  calibration  constant  to
                     adjust  the  nominal time offset of a particular clock to agree with an external standard, such as a precision PPS signal.  It also provides a way to correct a sys-
                     tematic error or bias due to serial port or operating system latencies, different cable lengths or receiver internal delay.  The specified offset is in addition  to
                     the  propagation  delay provided by other means, such as internal DIPswitches.  Where a calibration for an individual system and driver is available, an approximate
                     correction is noted in the driver documentation pages.  Note: in order to facilitate calibration when more than one radio clock or PPS signal is supported,  a  spe-
                     cial  calibration feature is available.  It takes the form of an argument to the enable command described in Miscellaneous Options page and operates as described in
                     the "Reference Clock Drivers" page (available as part of the HTML documentation provided in /usr/share/doc/ntp).

              time2 secs
                     Specifies a fixed-point decimal number in seconds, which is interpreted in a driver-dependent way.  See the descriptions of specific drivers in the "Reference Clock
                     Drivers" page (available as part of the HTML documentation provided in /usr/share/doc/ntp ).

              stratum int
                     Specifies  the  stratum  number  assigned  to  the driver, an integer between 0 and 15.  This number overrides the default stratum number ordinarily assigned by the
                     driver itself, usually zero.

              refid string
                     Specifies an ASCII string of from one to four characters which defines the reference identifier used by the driver.  This string overrides  the  default  identifier
                     ordinarily assigned by the driver itself.

              mode int
                     Specifies  a  mode number which is interpreted in a device-specific fashion.  For instance, it selects a dialing protocol in the ACTS driver and a device subtype in
                     the parse drivers.

              flag1 0 | 1

              flag2 0 | 1

              flag3 0 | 1

              flag4 0 | 1
                     These four flags are used for customizing the clock driver.  The interpretation of these values, and whether they are used at all, is a function of  the  particular
                     clock  driver.  However, by convention flag4 is used to enable recording monitoring data to the clockstats file configured with the filegen command.  Further infor-
                     mation on the filegen command can be found in Monitoring Options.

