3. Fixes for TWA Hazards

   We discuss three possible fixes to TCP to avoid these hazards.

   (F1) Ignore RST segments in TIME-WAIT state.

        If the 2 minute MSL is enforced, this fix avoids all three
        hazards.

        This is the simplest fix.  One could also argue that it is
        formally the correct thing to do; since allowing time for old
        duplicate segments to die is one of TIME-WAIT state's functions,
        the state should not be truncated by a RST segment.

   (F2) Use PAWS to avoid the hazards.

        Suppose that the TCP ignores RST segments in TIME-WAIT state,
        but only long enough to guarantee that the timestamp clocks on
        both ends have ticked.  Then the PAWS mechanism [RFC-1323] will
        prevent old duplicate data segments from interfering with the
        new incarnation, eliminating hazard H1.  For reasons explained
        below, however, it may not eliminate all old duplicate ACK
        segments, so hazards H2 and H3 will still exist.

        In the language of the TCP Extensions RFC [RFC-1323]:

           When processing a RST bit in TIME-WAIT state:

               If (Snd.TS.OK is off) or (Time.in.TW.state() >= W)
                   then enter the CLOSED state, delete the TCB,
                   drop the RST segment, and return.

               else simply drop the RST segment and return.

        Here "Time.in.TW.state()" is a function returning the elapsed
        time since TIME-WAIT state was entered, and W is a constant that
        is at least twice the longest possible period for timestamp
        clocks, i.e., W = 2 secs [RFC-1323].



Braden                                                          [Page 7]

RFC 1337                 TCP TIME-WAIT Hazards                  May 1992


        This assumes that the timestamp clock at each end continues to
        advance at a constant rate whether or not there are any open
        connections.  We do not have to consider what happens across a
        system crash (e.g., the timestamp clock may jump randomly),
        because of the assumed Quiet Time at system startup.

        Once this change is in place, the initial timestamps that occur
        on the SYN and {SYN,ACK} segments reopening the connection will
        be larger than any timestamp on a segment from earlier
        incarnations.  As a result, the PAWS mechanism operating in the
        new connection incarnation will avoid the H1 hazard, ie.
        acceptance of old duplicate data.

        The effectiveness of fix (F2) in preventing acceptance of old
        duplicate data segments, i.e., hazard H1, has been demonstrated
        in the Sun OS TCP mentioned earlier.  Unfortunately, these tests
        revealed a somewhat surprising fact:  old duplicate ACKs from
        the earlier incarnation can still slip past PAWS, so that (F2)
        will not prevent failures H2 or H3.  What happens is that TIME-
        WAIT state effectively regenerates the timestamp of an old
        duplicate ACK.  That is, when an old duplicate arrives in TIME-
        WAIT state, an extended TCP will send out its own ACK with a
        timestamp option containing its CURRENT timestamp clock value.
        If this happens immediately before the TWA mechanism kills
        TIME-WAIT state, the result will be a "new old duplicate"
        segment with a current timestamp that may pass the PAWS test on
        the reopened connection.

        Whether H2 and H3 are critical depends upon how often they
        happen and what assumptions the applications make about TCP
        semantics.  In the case of the H3 hazard, merely trying the open
        again is likely to succeed.  Furthermore, many production TCPs
        have (despite the advice of the researchers who developed TCP)
        incorporated a "keep-alive" mechanism, which may kill
        connections unnecessarily.  The frequency of occurrence of H2
        and H3 may well be much lower than keep-alive failures or
        transient internet routing failures.

   (F3) Use 64-bit Sequence Numbers

        O'Malley and Peterson [RFC-1264] have suggested expansion of the
        TCP sequence space to 64 bits as an alternative to PAWS for
        avoiding the hazard of wrapped sequence numbers within the same
        incarnation.  It is worthwhile to inquire whether 64-bit
        sequence numbers could be used to avoid the TWA hazards as well.

        Using 64 bit sequence numbers would not prevent TWA - the early
        termination of TIME-WAIT state.  However, it appears that a



Braden                                                          [Page 8]

RFC 1337                 TCP TIME-WAIT Hazards                  May 1992


        combination of 64-bit sequence numbers with an appropriate
        modification of the TCP parameters could defeat all of the TWA
        hazards H1, H2, and H3.  The basis for this is explained in an
        appendix to this memo.  In summary, it could be arranged that
        the same sequence space would be reused only after a very long
        period of time, so every connection would be "slow" and "short".

