2.5.  Default Configuration

   OSPF is a powerful routing protocol, equipped with features to handle
   virtually any configuration requirement that might reasonably be
   found within an Autonomous System.  With this power comes a fair
   degree of complexity, which the sheer number of objects in the MIB
   will attest to.  Care has therefore been taken, in constructing this
   MIB, to define default values for virtually every object, to minimize
   the amount of parameterization required in the typical case.  That
   default configuration is as follows:

   Given the following assumptions:

   -    IP has already been configured

   -    The ifTable has already been configured

   -    ifSpeed is estimated by the interface drivers

   -    The OSPF Process automatically discovers all IP
        Interfaces and creates corresponding OSPF Interfaces

   -    The TOS 0 metrics are autonomously derived from ifSpeed

   -    The OSPF Process automatically creates the Areas required
        for the Interfaces

   The simplest configuration of an OSPF process requires that:

   -    The OSPF Process be Enabled.



Baker & Coltun              Standards Track                     [Page 8]

RFC 1850                        OSPF MIB                   November 1995


   This can be accomplished with a single SET:

                  ospfAdminStat := enabled.

   The configured system will have the following attributes:

   -    The RouterID will be one of the IP addresses of the
        device

   -    The device will be neither an Area Border Router nor an
        Autonomous System Border Router.

   -    Every IP Interface, with or without an address, will be
        an OSPF Interface.

   -    The AreaID of each interface will be 0.0.0.0, the
        Backbone.

   -    Authentication will be disabled

   -    All Broadcast and Point to Point interfaces will be
        operational.  NBMA Interfaces require the configuration
        of at least one neighbor.

   -    Timers on all direct interfaces will be:

          Hello Interval:        10 seconds
          Dead Timeout:          40 Seconds
          Retransmission:         5 Seconds
          Transit Delay:          1 Second
          Poll Interval:        120 Seconds

   -    no direct links to hosts will be configured.

   -    no addresses will be summarized

   -    Metrics, being a measure of bit duration, are unambiguous
        and intelligent.

   -    No Virtual Links will be configured.











Baker & Coltun              Standards Track                     [Page 9]

RFC 1850                        OSPF MIB                   November 1995


