1822
          BBN Report 1822, "The Specification of the Interconnection of
          a Host and an IMP".  The specification of interface between a
          host and the ARPANET.

ARPANET leader
          The control information on an ARPANET message at the host-IMP
          interface.

ARPANET message
          The unit of transmission between a host and an IMP in the
          ARPANET.  The maximum size is about 1012 octets (8096 bits).

ARPANET packet
          A unit of transmission used internally in the ARPANET between
          IMPs. The maximum size is about 126 octets (1008 bits).

Destination
          The destination address, an internet header field.

DF
          The Don't Fragment bit carried in the flags field.

Flags
          An internet header field carrying various control flags.

Fragment Offset
          This internet header field indicates where in the internet
          datagram a fragment belongs.

GGP
          Gateway to Gateway Protocol, the protocol used primarily
          between gateways to control routing and other gateway
          functions.

header
          Control information at the beginning of a message, segment,
          datagram, packet or block of data.

ICMP
          Internet Control Message Protocol, implemented in the internet
          module, the ICMP is used from gateways to hosts and between
          hosts to report errors and make routing suggestions.




                                                               [Page 41]


                                                          September 1981
Internet Protocol
Glossary



Identification
          An internet header field carrying the identifying value
          assigned by the sender to aid in assembling the fragments of a
          datagram.

IHL
          The internet header field Internet Header Length is the length
          of the internet header measured in 32 bit words.

IMP
          The Interface Message Processor, the packet switch of the
          ARPANET.

Internet Address
          A four octet (32 bit) source or destination address consisting
          of a Network field and a Local Address field.

internet datagram
          The unit of data exchanged between a pair of internet modules
          (includes the internet header).

internet fragment
          A portion of the data of an internet datagram with an internet
          header.

Local Address
          The address of a host within a network.  The actual mapping of
          an internet local address on to the host addresses in a
          network is quite general, allowing for many to one mappings.

MF
          The More-Fragments Flag carried in the internet header flags
          field.

module
          An implementation, usually in software, of a protocol or other
          procedure.

more-fragments flag
          A flag indicating whether or not this internet datagram
          contains the end of an internet datagram, carried in the
          internet header Flags field.

NFB
          The Number of Fragment Blocks in a the data portion of an
          internet fragment.  That is, the length of a portion of data
          measured in 8 octet units.



[Page 42]                                                               


September 1981                                                          
                                                       Internet Protocol
                                                                Glossary



octet
          An eight bit byte.

Options
          The internet header Options field may contain several options,
          and each option may be several octets in length.

Padding
          The internet header Padding field is used to ensure that the
          data begins on 32 bit word boundary.  The padding is zero.

Protocol
          In this document, the next higher level protocol identifier,
          an internet header field.

Rest
          The local address portion of an Internet Address.

Source
          The source address, an internet header field.

TCP
          Transmission Control Protocol:  A host-to-host protocol for
          reliable communication in internet environments.

TCP Segment
          The unit of data exchanged between TCP modules (including the
          TCP header).

TFTP
          Trivial File Transfer Protocol:  A simple file transfer
          protocol built on UDP.

Time to Live
          An internet header field which indicates the upper bound on
          how long this internet datagram may exist.

TOS
          Type of Service

Total Length
          The internet header field Total Length is the length of the
          datagram in octets including internet header and data.

TTL
          Time to Live




                                                               [Page 43]


                                                          September 1981
Internet Protocol
Glossary



Type of Service
          An internet header field which indicates the type (or quality)
          of service for this internet datagram.

UDP
          User Datagram Protocol:  A user level protocol for transaction
          oriented applications.

User
          The user of the internet protocol.  This may be a higher level
          protocol module, an application program, or a gateway program.

Version
          The Version field indicates the format of the internet header.




































[Page 44]                                                               


September 1981                                                          
                                                       Internet Protocol



                               REFERENCES



[1]  Cerf, V., "The Catenet Model for Internetworking," Information
     Processing Techniques Office, Defense Advanced Research Projects
     Agency, IEN 48, July 1978.

[2]  Bolt Beranek and Newman, "Specification for the Interconnection of
     a Host and an IMP," BBN Technical Report 1822, Revised May 1978.

[3]  Postel, J., "Internet Control Message Protocol - DARPA Internet
     Program Protocol Specification," RFC 792, USC/Information Sciences
     Institute, September 1981.

[4]  Shoch, J., "Inter-Network Naming, Addressing, and Routing,"
     COMPCON, IEEE Computer Society, Fall 1978.

[5]  Postel, J., "Address Mappings," RFC 796, USC/Information Sciences
     Institute, September 1981.

[6]  Shoch, J., "Packet Fragmentation in Inter-Network Protocols,"
     Computer Networks, v. 3, n. 1, February 1979.

[7]  Strazisar, V., "How to Build a Gateway", IEN 109, Bolt Beranek and
     Newman, August 1979.

[8]  Postel, J., "Service Mappings," RFC 795, USC/Information Sciences
     Institute, September 1981.

[9]  Postel, J., "Assigned Numbers," RFC 790, USC/Information Sciences
     Institute, September 1981.



















                                                               [Page 45]

