BUG FIXES						*bug-fixes-6*

When checking the command name for "gvim", "ex", etc. ignore case.  Required
for systems where case is ignored in command names.

Search pattern "[a-c-e]" also matched a 'd' and didn't match a '-'.

When double-clicking in another window, wasn't recognized as double click,
because topline is different.  Added set_mouse_topline().

The BROKEN_LOCALE check was broken.  (Marcin Dalecki)

When "t_Co" is set, the default colors remain the same, thus wrong.  Reset the
colors after changing "t_Co". (Steve Wall)

When exiting with ":wqall" the messages about writing files could overwrite
each other and be lost forever.

When starting Vim with an extremely long file name (around 1024 characters) it
would crash.  Added a few checks to avoid buffer overflows.

CTRL-E could get stuck in a file with very long lines.

":au syntax<Tab>" expanded event names while it should expand groups starting
with "syntax".

When expanding a file name caused an error (e.g., for <amatch>) it was
produced even when inside an "if 0".

'cindent' formatted C comments differently from what the 'comments' option
specified. (Steve Wall)

Default for 'grepprg' didn't include the file name when only grepping in one
file.  Now /dev/null has been added for Unix.

Opening the option window twice caused trouble.  Now the cursor goes to the
existing option window.

":sview" and ":view" didn't set 'readonly' for an existing buffer.  Now do set
'readonly', unless the buffer is also edited in another window.

GTK GUI: When 'guioptions' excluded 'g', the more prompt caused the toolbar
and menubar to disappear and resize the window (which clears the text).
Now always grey-out the toplevel menus to avoid that the menubar changes size
or disappears.

When re-using the current buffer for a new buffer, buffer-local variables were
not deleted.

GUI: when 'scrolloff' is 0 dragging the mouse above the window didn't cause a
down scroll.  Now pass on a mouse event with mouse_row set to -1.

Win32: Console version didn't work on telnet, because of switching between two
console screens.  Now use one console screen and save/restore the contents
when needed.  (Craig Barkhouse)

When reading a file the magic number for encryption was included in the file
length. (Antonio Colombo)

The quickfix window contained leading whitespace and NULs for multi-line
messages. (David Harrison)

When using cscope, redundant tags were removed.  This caused a numbering
problem, because they were all listed.  Don't remove redundant cscope tags.
(David Bustos).

Cscope: Test for which matches are in the current buffer sometimes failed,
causing a jump to another match than selected. (David Bustos)

Win32: Buffer overflow when adding a charset name in a font.

'titlestring' and 'iconstring' were evaluating an expression in the current
context, which could be a user function, which is a problem for local
variables vs global variables.

Win32 GUI: Mapping <M-F> didn't work.  Now handle SHIFT and CTRL in
_OnSysChar().

Win32 GUI: (on no file), :vs<CR>:q<CR> left a trail of pixels down the middle.
Could also happen for the ruler.  screen_puts() didn't clear the right char in
ScreenLines[] for the bold trick.

Win32: ":%!sort|uniq" didn't work, because the input file name touches the
"|".  Insert a space before the "|".

OS/2: Expanding wildcards included non-existing files.  Caused ":runtime" to
fail, which caused syntax highlighting to fail.

Pasting a register containing CTRL-R on the command line could cause an
endless loop that can't be interrupted.  Now it can be stopped with CTRL-C.

When 'verbose' is set, a message for file read/write could overwrite the
previous message.
When 'verbose' is set, the header from ":select" was put after the last
message.  Now start a new line.

The hit-enter prompt reacted to the response of the t_RV string, causing
messages at startup to disappear.

When t_Co was set to 1, colors were still used.  Now only use color when t_Co
> 1.

Listing functions with ":function" didn't quit when 'q' or ':' was typed at
the more prompt.

Use mkstemp() instead of mktemp() when it's available, avoids a warning for
linking on FreeBSD.

When doing Insert mode completion it's possible that b_sfname is NULL.  Don't
give it to printf() for the "Scanning" message.

":set runtimepath-=$VIMRUNTIME" didn't work, because expansion of wildcards
was done after trying to remove the string.  Now for ":set opt+=val" and ":set
opt-=val" the expansion of wildcards is done before adding or removing "val".

Using CTRL-V with the "r" command with a blockwise Visual selection inserted a
CTRL-V instead of getting a special character.

Unix: Changed the order of libraries: Put -lXdmcp after -lX11 and -lSM -lICE
after -lXdmcp.  Should fix link problem on HP-UX 10.20.

Don't remove the last "-lm" from the link line.  Vim may link but fail later
when the GUI starts.

When the shell returns with an error when trying to expand wildcards, do
include the pattern when the "EW_NOTFOUND" flag was set.
When expanding wildcards with the shell fails, give a clear error message
instead of just "1 returned".

Selecting a Visual block, with the start partly on a Tab, deleting it leaves
the cursor too far to the left.  Causes "s" to work in the wrong position.

Pound sign in normal.c caused trouble on some compilers.  Use 0xA3 instead.

Warning for changing a read-only file wasn't given when 'insertmode' was set.

Win32: When 'shellxquote' is set to a double quote (e.g., using csh), ":!start
notepad file" doesn't work.  Remove the double quotes added by 'shellxquote'
when using ":!start". (Pavol Juhas)

The "<f-args>" argument of ":command" didn't accept Tabs for white space.
Also, don't add an empty argument when there are trailing blanks.

":e test\\je" edited "test\je", but ":next test\\je" edited "testje".
Backslashes were removed one time too many for ":next".

VMS: "gf" didn't work properly.  Use vms_fixfilename() to translate the file
name. (Zoltan Arpadffy)

After ":hi Normal ctermbg=black ctermfg=white" and suspending Vim not all
characters are redrawn with the right background.

When doing "make test" without +eval or +windows feature, many tests failed.
Now have test1 generate a script to copy the correct output, so that a test
that doesn't work is skipped.

On FreeBSD the Perl interface added "-lc" to the link command and Python added
"-pthread".  These two don't work together, because the libc_r library should
be used.  Removed "-lc" from Perl, it should not be needed.
Also: Add "-pthread" to $LIBS, so that the checks for functions is done with
libc_r.  Sigaltstack() appears to be missing from libc_r.

The Syntax sub-menus were getting too long, reorganized them and added another
level for some languages.

Visual block "r"eplace didn't work well when a Tab is partly included.
(Matthias Kramm)

When yanking a Visual block, where some lines end halfway the block, putting
the text somewhere else doesn't insert a block.  Padd with spaces for missing
characters.  Added "y_width" to struct yankreg. (Matthias Kramm)

If a substitute string has a multibyte character after a backslash only the
first byte of it was skipped. (Muraoka Taro)

Win32: Numeric keypad keys were missing from the builtin termcap entry.

When a file was read-only ":wa!" didn't force it to be written. (Vince Negri)

Amiga: A file name starting with a colon was considered absolute but it isn't.
Amiga: ":pwd" added a slash when in the root of a drive.

Don't let 'ttymouse' default to "dec" when compiled with dec mouse support.
It breaks the gpm mouse (Linux console).

The prototypes for the Perl interface didn't work for threaded Perl.  Added a
sed command to remove the prototypes from proto/if_perl.pro and added them
manually to if_perl.xs.

When ":w!" resets the 'readonly' option the title and status lines were not
updated.

":args" showed the current file when the argument list was empty.  Made this
work like Vi: display nothing.

"99:<C-U>echo v:count" echoed "99" in Normal mode, but 0 in Visual mode.
Don't set v:count when executing a stuffed command.

Amiga: Got a requester for "home:" because it's in the default runtime path.
Don't bring up a requester when searching for a file in 'path', sourcing the
.vimrc file or using ":runtime".

Win16 and Win32: Considered a file "\path\file" absolute.  Can cause the same
file to appear as two different buffers.

Win32: Renaming a file to an empty string crashed Vim.  Happened when using
explorer.vim and hitting ESC at the rename prompt.

Win32: strftime() crashed when called with a "-1" value for the time.

Win32 with Borland compiler: mch_FullName() didn't work, caused tag file not
to be found.

Cscope sometimes jumped to the wrong tag. (David Bustos)

OS/2: Could not find the tags file.  mch_expand_wildcards() added another
slash to a directory name.

When using ">>" the `] mark was not in the last column.

When Vim was compiled without menu support, filetype.vim was still trying to
source the menu.vim script. (Rafael Garcia-Suarez)

":ptag" added an item to the tag stack.

Win32 IME: "gr" didn't use IME mode.

In the "vim --help" message the term "options" was used for arguments.  That's
confusing, call them "arguments".

When there are two windows, and a BufUnload autocommand for closing window #1
closed window #2, Vim would crash.

When there is a preview window and only one other window, ":q" wouldn't exit.

In Insert mode, when cancelling a digraph with ESC, the '?' wasn't removed.

On Unix glob(".*") returned "." and "..", on Windows it didn't.  On Windows
glob("*") also returned files starting with a dot.  Made this work like Unix
on all systems.

Win32: Removed old code to open a console.  Vimrun is now used and works fine.

Compute the room needed by the intro message accurately, so that it also fits
on a 25 line console. (Craig Barkhouse)

":ptnext" was broken.  Now remember the last tag used in the preview window
separately from the tagstack.

Didn't check for "-display" being the last argument. (Wichert Akkerman)

GTK GUI: When starting "gvim" under some conditions there would be an X error.
Don't replace the error handler when creating the xterm clipboard. (Wichert
Akkerman)

Adding a space after a help tag caused the tag not to be found.  E.g., ":he
autoindent ".

Was trying to expand a URL into a full path name.  On Windows this resulted in
the current directory to be prepended to the URL.  Added vim_isAbsName() and
vim_FullName() to avoid that various machine specific functions do it
differently.

":n *.c" ":cd .." ":n" didn't use the original directory of the file.  Vi only
does it for the current file (looks like a bug).  Now remember the buffer used
for the entry in the argument list and use its name (adjusted when doing
":cd"), unless it's deleted.

When inserting a special key as its name ("<F8>" as four characters) after
moving around in Insert mode, undo didn't work properly.

Motif GUI: When using the right mouse button, for some people gvim froze for
a couple of seconds (Motif 1.2?).  This doesn't happen when there is no Popup
menu.  Solved by only creating a popup menu when 'mousemodel' is "popup" or
"popup_setpos". (David Harrison)

Motif: When adding many menu items, the "Help" menu disappeared but the
menubar didn't wrap.  Now manually set the menubar height.

When using <BS> in Insert mode to remove a line break, or using "J" to join
lines, the cursor could end up halfway a multi-byte character. (Muraoka Taro)

Removed defining SVR4 in configure.  It causes problems for some X header
files and doesn't appear to be used anywhere.

When 'wildignore' is used, 'ignorecase' for a tag match was not working.

When 'wildignore' contains "*~" it was impossible to edit a file ending in a
"~".  Now don't recognize a file ending in "~" as containing wildcards.

Disabled the mouse code for OS/2.  It was not really used.

":mksession" always used the full path name for a buffer, also when the short
name could be used.
":mkvimrc" and ":mksession" didn't save 'wildchar' and 'pastetoggle' in such a
way that they would be restored.  Now use the key name if possible, this is
portable.

After recovering a file and abandoning it, an ":edit" command didn't give the
ATTENTION prompt again.  Would be useful to be able to delete the file in an
easy way.  Reset the BF_RECOVERED flag when unloading the buffer.

histdel() could match or ignore case, depending on what happened before it.
Now always match case.

When a window size was specified when splitting a window, it would still get
the size from 'winheight' or 'winwidth' if it's larger.

When using "append" or "insert" inside a function definition, a line starting
with "function" or "endfunction" caused confusion.  Now recognize the commands
and skip lines until a ".".

At the end of any function or sourced file need_wait_return could be reset,
causing messages to disappear when redrawing.

When in a while loop the line number for error messages stayed fixed.  Now the
line number is remembered in the while loop.

"cd c:/" didn't work on MS-DOS.  mch_isdir() removed a trailing slash.

MS-Windows: getftime() didn't work when a directory had a trailing slash or
backslash.  Didn't show the time in the explorer because of this.

When doing wildcard completion, a directory "a/" sorted after "a-b".  Now
recognize path separators when sorting files.

Non-Unix systems: When editing "c:/dir/../file" and "c:/file" they were
created as different buffers, although it's the same file.  Expand to a full
file name also when an absolute name contains "..".

"g&" didn't repeat the last substitute properly.

When 'clipboard' was set to "unnamed", a "Y" command would not write to "0.
Now make a copy of register 0 to the clipboard register.

When the search pattern matches in many ways, it could not always be
interrupted with a CTRL-C.  And CTRL-C would have to be hit once for every
line when 'hlsearch' is on.
When 'incsearch' is on and interrupting the search for a match, don't abandon
the command line.

When turning a directory name into a full path, e.g., with fnamemodify(),
sometimes a slash was added.  Make this consistent: Don't add a slash.

When a file name contains a "!", using it in a shell command will cause
trouble: ":!cat %".  Escape the "!" to avoid that.  Escape it another time
when 'shell' contains "sh".

Completing a file name that has a tail that starts with a "~" didn't work:
":e view/~<Tab>".

Using a ":command" argument that contains < and > but not for a special
argument was not skipped properly.

The DOS install program: On Win2000 the check for a vim.exe or gvim.exe in
$PATH didn't work, it always found it in the current directory.
Rename the vim.exe in the current dir to avoid this. (Walter Briscoe)

In the MS-DOS/Windows install program, use %VIM% instead of an absolute path,
so that moving Vim requires only one change in the batch file.

Mac: mch_FullName() changed the "fname" argument and didn't always initialize
the buffer.

MS-DOS: mch_FullName() didn't fix forward/backward slashes in an absolute file
name.

"echo expand("%:p:h")" with an empty file name removed one directory name on
MS-DOS.  For Unix, when the file name is a directory, the directory name was
removed.  Now make it consistent: "%:p" adds a path separator for all systems,
but no path separator is added in other situations.

Unix: When checking for a CTRL-C (could happen any time) and there is an X
event (e.g., clipboard updated) and there is typeahead, Vim would hang until a
character was typed.

MS-DOS, MS-Windows and Amiga: expanding "$ENV/foo" when $ENV ends in a colon,
had the slash removed.

":he \^=" gave an error for using \_.  ":he ^=" didn't find tag :set^=.  Even
"he :set^=" didn't find it.

A tags file name "D:/tags" was used as file "tags" in "D:".  That doesn't work
when the current path for D: isn't the root of the drive.

Removed calls to XtInitializeWidgetClass(), they shouldn't be necessary.

When using a dtterm or various other color terminals, and the Normal group has
been set to use a different background color, the background wouldn't always
be displayed with that color.  Added check for "ut" termcap entry: If it's
missing, clearing the screen won't give us the current background color.  Need
to draw each character instead.  Vim now also works when the "cl" (clear
screen) termcap entry is missing.

When repeating a "/" search command with a line offset, the "n" did use the
offset but didn't make the motion linewise.  Made "d/pat/+2" and "dn" do the
same.

Win32: Trying to use ":tearoff" for a menu that doesn't exist caused a crash.

OpenPTY() didn't work on Sequent.  Add a configure check for getpseudotty().

C-indenting: Indented a line starting with ")" with the matching "(", but not
a line starting with "x)" looks strange.  Also compute the indent for aligning
with items inside the () and use the lowest indent.

MS-DOS and Windows: ":n *.vim" also matched files ending in "~".
Moved mch_expandpath() from os_win16.c and os_msdos.c to misc1.c, they are
equal.

Macintosh: (Dany St-Amant)
- In Vi-compatible mode didn't read files with CR line separators.
- Fixed a bug in the handling of Activate/Deactivate Event
- Fixed a bug in gui_mch_dialog (using wrong pointer)

Multibyte GDK XIM: While composing a multibyte-word, if user presses a
mouse button, then the word is removed.  It should remain and composing end.
(Sung-Hyun Nam)

MS-DOS, MS-Windows and OS/2: When reading from stdin, automatic CR-LF
conversion by the C library got in the way of detecting a "dos" 'fileformat'.

When 'smartcase' is set, patterns with "\S" would also make 'ignorecase'
reset.

When clicking the mouse in a column larger than 222, it moved to the first
column.  Can't encode a larger number in a character.  Now limit the number to
222, don't jump back to the first column.

GUI: In some versions CSI would cause trouble, either when typed directly or
when part of a multi-byte sequence.

When using multibyte characters in a ":normal" command, a trailing byte that
is CSI or K_SPECIAL caused problems.

Wildmenu didn't handle multi-byte characters.

":sleep 10" could not be interrupted on Windows, while "gs" could.  Made them
both work the same.

Unix: When waiting for a character is interrupted by an X-windows event (e.g.,
to obtain the contents of the selection), the wait time would not be honored.
A message could be overwritten quickly.  Now compute the remaining waiting
time.

Windows: Completing "\\share\c$\S" inserted a backslash before the $ and then
the name is invalid.  Don't insert the backslash.

When doing an auto-write before ":make", IObuff was overwritten and the wrong
text displayed later.

On the Mac the directories "c:/tmp" and "c:/temp" were used in the defaults
for 'backupdir' and 'directory', they don't exist.

The check for a new file not to be on an MS-DOS filesystem created the file
temporarily, which can be slow.  Don't do this if there is another check for
the swap file being on an MS-DOS filesystem.

Don't give the "Changing a readonly file" warning when reading from stdin.

When using the "Save As" menu entry and not entering a file name, would get an
error message for the trailing ":edit #".  Now only do that when the
alternate file name was changed.

When Vim owns the X11 selection and is being suspended, an application that
tries to use the selection hangs.  When Vim continues it could no longer
obtain the selection.  Now give up the selection when suspending.

option.h and globals.h were included in some files, while they were already
included in vim.h.  Moved the definition of EXTERN to vim.h to avoid doing it
twice.

When repeating an operator that used a search pattern and the search pattern
contained characters that have a special meaning on the cmdline (e.g., CTRL-U)
it didn't work.

Fixed various problems with using K_SPECIAL (0x80) and CSI (0x9b) as a byte in
a (multibyte) character.  For example, the "r" command could not be repeated.

The DOS/Windows install program didn't always work from a directory with a
long filename, because $VIM and the executable name would not have the same
path.

Multi-byte:
- Using an any-but character range [^x] in a regexp didn't work for UTF-8.
  (Muraoka Taro)
- When backspacing over inserted characters in Replace mode multi-byte
  characters were not handled correctly. (Muraoka Taro)
- Search commands "#" and "*" didn't work with multibyte characters. (Muraoka
  Taro)
- Word completion in Insert mode didn't work with multibyte characters.
  (Muraoka Taro)
- Athena/Motif GUI: when 'linespace' is non-zero the cursor would be drawn too
  wide (number of bytes instead of cell width).
- When changing 'encoding' to "euc-jp" and inserting a character Vim would
  crash.
- For euc-jp characters positioning the cursor would sometimes be wrong.
  Also, with two characters with 0x8e leading byte only the first one would be
  displayed.
- When using DYNAMIC_ICONV on Win32 conversion might fail because of using the
  wrong error number. (Muraoka Taro)
- Using Alt-x in the GUI while 'encoding' was set to "utf-8" didn't produce
  the right character.
- When using Visual block selection and only the left halve of a double-wide
  character is selected, the highlighting continued to the end of the line.
- Visual-block delete didn't work properly when deleting the right halve of a
  double-wide character.
- Overstrike mode for the cmdline replaced only the first byte of a multibyte
  character.
- The cursor in Replace mode (also in the cmdline) was to small on a
  double-wide character.
- When a multibyte character contained a 0x80 byte, it didn't work (was using
  a CSI byte instead). (Muraoka Taro)
- Wordwise selection with the mouse didn't work.
- Yanking a modeless selection of multi-byte characters didn't work.
- When 'selection' is "exclusive", selecting a word that ends in a multi-byte
  character used wrong highlighting for the following character.

Win32 with Make_mvc.mak: Didn't compile for debugging. (Craig Barkhouse)

Win32 GUI: When "vimrun.exe" is used to execute an external command, don't
give a message box with the return value, it was already printed by vimrun.
Also avoid printing the return value of the shell when ":silent!" is used.

Win32: selecting a lot of text and using the "find/replace" dialog caused a
crash.

X11 GUI: When typing a character with the 8th bit set and the Meta/Alt
modifier, the modifier was removed without changing the character.

Truncating a message to make it fit on the command line, using "..." for the
middle, didn't always compute the space correctly.

Could not imap <C-@>.  Now it works like <Nul>.

VMS:
- Fixed a few things for VAXC.  os_vms_fix.com had some strange CTRL-M
  characters. (Zoltan Arpadffy and John W. Hamill)
- Added VMS-specific defaults for the 'isfname' and 'isprint' options.
  (Zoltan Arpadffy)
- Removed os_vms_osdef.h, it's no longer used.

The gzip plugin used a ":normal" command, this doesn't work when dropping a
compressed file on Vim.

In very rare situations a binary search for a tag would fail, because an
uninitialized value happens to be half the size of the tag file. (Narendran)

When using BufEnter and BufLeave autocommands to enable/disable a menu, it
wasn't updated right away.

When doing a replace with the "c"onfirm flag, the cursor was positioned after
the ruler, instead of after the question.  With a long replacement string the
screen could scroll up and cause a "more" prompt.  Now the message is
truncated to make it fit.

Motif: The autoconf check for the Xp library didn't work.

When 'verbose' is set to list lines of a sourced file, defining a function
would reset the counter used for the "more" prompt.

In the Win32 find/replace dialog, a '/' character caused problems.  Escape it
with a backslash.

Starting a shell with ":sh" was different from starting a shell for CTRL-Z
when suspending doesn't work.  They now work the same way.

Jumping to a file mark while in a changed buffer gave a "mark not set" error.

":execute histget("cmd")" causes an endless loop and crashed Vim.  Now catch
all commands that cause too much recursiveness.

Removed "Failed to open input method" error message, too many people got this
when they didn't want to use a XIM.

GUI: When compiled without the +windows feature, the scrollbar would start
below line one.

Removed the trick with redefining character class functions from regexp.c.

Win32 GUI: Find dialog gives focus back to main window, when typing a
character mouse pointer is blanked, it didn't reappear when moving it in the
dialog window. (Vince Negri)

When recording and typing a CTRL-C, no character was recorded.  When in Insert
mode or cancelling half a command, playing back the recorded sequence wouldn't
work.  Now record the CTRL-C.

When the GUI was started, mouse codes for DEC and netterm were still checked
for.

GUI: When scrolling and 'writedelay' is non-zero, the character under the
cursor was displayed in the wrong position (one line above/below with
CTRL-E/CTRL-Y).

A ":normal" command would reset the 'scrollbind' info.  Causes problems when
using a ":normal" command in an autocommand for opening a file.

Windows GUI: a point size with a dot, like "7.5", wasn't recognized. (Muraoka
Taro)

When 'scrollbind' wasn't set would still remember the current position,
wasting time.

GTK: Crash when 'shell' doesn't exist and doing":!ls".  Use _exit() instead of
exit() when the child couldn't execute the shell.

Multi-byte:
- GUI with double-byte encoding: a mouse click in left halve of double-wide
  character put the cursor in previous char.
- Using double-byte encoding and 'selection' is "exclusive": "vey" and "^Vey"
  included the character after the word.
- When using a double-byte encoding and there is a lead byte at the end of the
  line, the preceding line would be displayed.  "ga" also showed wrong info.
- "gf" didn't include multi-byte characters before the cursor properly.
  (Muraoka Taro)

GUI: The cursor was sometimes not removed when scrolling.  Changed the policy
from redrawing the cursor after each call to gui_write() to only update it at
the end of update_screen() or when setting the cursor position.  Also only
update the scrollbars at the end of update_screen(), that's the only place
where the window text may have been scrolled.

Formatting "/*<Tab>long text", produced "* <Tab>" in the next line.  Now
remove the space before the Tab.
Formatting "/*<Tab>  long text", produced "* <Tab> long text" in the next
line.  Now keep the space after the Tab.

In some places non-ASCII alphabetical characters were accepted, which could
cause problems.  For example, ":X" (X being such a character).

When a pattern matches the end of the line, the last character in the line was
highlighted for 'hlsearch'.  That looks wrong for "/\%3c".  Now highlight the
character just after the line.

Motif: If a dialog was closed by clicking on the "X" of the window frame Vim
would no longer respond.

When using CTRL-X or CTRL-A on a number with many leading zeros, Vim would
crash. (Matsumoto)

When 'insertmode' is set, the mapping in mswin.vim for CTRL-V didn't work in
Select mode.  Insert mode wasn't restarted after overwriting the text.
Now allow nesting Insert mode with insert and change commands.  CTRL-O
cwfoo<Esc> now also works.

Clicking with the right mouse button in another window started Visual mode,
but used the start position of the current window.  Caused ml_get errors when
the line number was invalid.  Now stay in the same window.

When 'selection' is "exclusive", "gv" sometimes selected one character fewer.

When 'comments' contains more than one start/middle/end triplet, the optional
flags could be mixed up.  Also didn't align the end with the middle part.

Double-right-click in Visual mode didn't update the shown mode.

When the Normal group has a font name, it was never used when starting up.
Now use it when 'guifont' and 'guifontset' are empty.
Setting a font name to a highlight group before the GUI was started didn't
work.

"make test" didn't use the name of the generated Vim executable.

'cindent' problems:
- Aligned with an "else" inside a do-while loop for a line below that loop.
  (Meikel Brandmeyer)
- A line before a function would be indented even when terminated with a
  semicolon. (Meikel Brandmeyer)
- 'cindent' gave too much indent to a line after a "};" that ends an array
  init.
- Support declaration lines ending in "," and "\".  (Meikel Brandmeyer)
- A case statement inside a do-while loop was used for indenting a line after
  the do-while loop. (Meikel Brandmeyer)
- When skipping a string in a line with one double quote it could continue in
  the previous line. (Meikel Brandmeyer)

When 'list' is set, 'hlsearch' didn't highlight a match at the end of the
line.  Now highlight the '$'.

The Paste menu item in the menu bar, the popup menu and the toolbar were all
different.  Now made them all equal to how it was done in mswin.vim.

st_dev can be smaller than "unsigned".  The compiler may give an overflow
warning.  Added a configure check for dev_t.

Athena: closing a confirm() dialog killed Vim.

Various typos in the documentation. (Matt Dunford)

Python interface: The definition of _DEBUG could cause trouble, undefine it.
The error message for not being able to load the shared library wasn't
translated.  (Muraoka Taro)

Mac: (Dany St-Amant and Axel Kielhorn)
- Several fixes.
- Vim was eating 80% of the CPU time.
- The project os_mac.pbxproj didn't work,  Moved it to a subdirectory.
- Made the menu priority work for the menubar.
- Fixed a problem with dragging the scrollbar.
- Cleaned up the various #ifdefs.

Unix: When catching a deadly signal and we keep getting one use _exit() to
exit in a quick and dirty way.

Athena menu ordering didn't work correctly. (David Harrison)

A ":make" or ":grep" command with a long argument could cause a crash.

Doing ":new file" and using "Quit" for the ATTENTION dialog still opened a new
window.

GTK: When starting the GUI and there is an error in the .vimrc file, don't
present the wait-return prompt, since the message was given in the terminal.

When there was an error in a .vimrc file the terminal where gvim was started
could be cleared.  Set msg_row in main.c before writing any messages.

GTK and X11 GUI: When trying to read characters from the user (e.g. with
input()) before the Vim window was opened caused Vim to hang when it was
started from the desktop.

OS/390 uses 31 bit pointers.  That broke some computations with MAX_COL.
Reduce MAX_COL by one bit for OS/390. (Ralf Schandl)

When defining a function and it already exists, Vim didn't say it existed
until after typing it.  Now do this right away when typing it.

The message remembered for displaying later (keep_msg) was sometimes pointing
into a generic buffer, which might be changed by the time the message is
displayed.  Now make a copy of the message.

When using multi-byte characters in a menu and a trailing byte is a backslash,
the menu would not be created correctly.  (Muraoka Taro)
Using a multibyte character in the substitute string where a trail byte is a
backslash didn't work.  (Muraoka Taro)

When setting "t_Co" in a vimrc file, then setting it automatically from an
xterm termresponse and then setting it again manually caused a crash.

When getting the value of a string option that is not supported, the number
zero was returned.  This breaks a check like "&enc == "asdf".  Now an empty
string is returned for string options.

Crashed when starting the GTK GUI while using 'notitle' in the vimrc, setting
'title' in the gvimrc and starting the GUI with ":gui".  Closed the connection
to the X server accidentally.

Had to hit return after selecting an entry for ":ts".

The message from ":cn" message was sometimes cleared.  Now display it after
redrawing if it doesn't cause a scroll (truncated when necessary).

hangulin.c didn't compile when the GUI was disabled.  Disable it when it won't
work.

When setting a termcap option like "t_CO", the value could be displayed as
being for a normal key with a modifier, like "<M-=>".

When expanding the argument list, entries which are a directory name did not
get included.  This stopped "vim c:/" from opening the file explorer.

":syn match sd "^" nextgroup=asdf" skipped the first column and matched the
nextgroup in the second column.

GUI: When 'lazyredraw' is set, 'showmatch' didn't work.  Required flushing
the output.

Don't define the <NetMouse> termcode in an xterm, reduces the problem when
someone types <Esc> } in Insert mode.

Made slash_adjust() work correctly for multi-byte characters. (Yasuhiro
Matsumoto)
Using a filename in Big5 encoding for autocommands didn't work (backslash in
trailbyte).  (Yasuhiro Matsumoto)

DOS and Windows: Expanding *.vim also matched file.vimfoo.  Expand path like
Unix to avoid problems with Windows dir functions.  Merged the DOS and Win32
functions.

Win32: GvimExt could not edit more than a few files at once, the length of the
argument was fixed.

"ls -1 * | xargs vim" worked, but the input was in cooked mode.  Now switch to
raw mode when needed.  Use dup() to copy the stderr file descriptor to stdin
to make shell commands work.  No longer requires an external program to do
this.

When using ":filetype off", ftplugin and indent usage would be switched off at
the same time.  Don't do this, setting 'filetype' manually can still use them.

GUI: When writing a double-byte character, it could be split up in two calls
to gui_write(), which doesn't work.  Now flush before the output buffer
becomes full.

When 'laststatus' is set and 'cmdheight' is two or bigger, the intro message
would be written over the status line.
The ":intro" command didn't work when there wasn't enough room.

Configuring for Ruby failed with a recent version of Ruby. (Akinori Musha)

Athena: When deleting the directory in which Vim was started, using the file
browser made Vim exit.  Removed the use of XtAppError().

When using autoconf 2.50, UNIX was not defined.  Moved the comment for "#undef
UNIX" to a separate line.

Win32: Disabled _OnWindowPosChanging() to make maximize work better.

Win32: Compiling with VC 4.0 didn't work. (Walter Briscoe)

Athena:
- Finally fixed the problems with deleting a menu. (David Harrison)
- Athena: When closing the confirm() dialog, worked like OK was pressed,
  instead of Cancel.

The file explorer didn't work in compatible mode, because of line
continuation.

Didn't give an error message for ":digraph a".

When using Ex mode in the GUI and typing a special key, <BS> didn't delete it
correctly.  Now display '?' for a special key.

When an operator is pending, clicking in another window made it apply to that
window, even though the line numbers could be beyond the end of the buffer.

When a function call doesn't have a terminating ")" Vim could crash.

Perl interface: could crash on exit with perl 5.6.1. (Anduin Withers)

Using %P in 'errorformat' wasn't handled correctly. (Tomas Zellerin)

Using a syntax cluster that includes itself made Vim crash.

GUI: With 'ls' set to 2, dragging the status line all the way up, then making
the Vim window smaller: Could not the drag status line anymore.

"vim -c startinsert! file" placed cursor on last char of a line, instead of
after it.  A ":set" command in the buffer menu set w_set_curswant.  Now don't
do this when w_curswant is MAXCOL.

Win32: When the gvim window was maximized and selecting another font, the
window would no longer fill the screen.

The line with 'pastetoggle' in ":options" didn't show the right value when it
is a special key.  Hitting <CR> didn't work either.

Formatting text, resulting in a % landing in the first line, repeated the % in
the following lines, like it's the start of a comment.

GTK: When adding a toolbar item while gvim is already running, it wasn't
possible to use the tooltip.  Now it works by adding the tooltip first.

The output of "g CTRL-G" mentioned "Char" but it's actually bytes.

Searching for the end of a oneline region didn't work correctly when there is
an offset for the highlighting.

Syntax highlighting: When synchronizing on C-comments, //*/ was seen as the
start of a comment.

Win32: Without scrollbars present, the MS mouse scroll wheel didn't work.
Also handle the scrollbars when they are not visible.

Motif: When there is no right scrollbar, the bottom scrollbar would still
leave room for it.  (Marcin Dalecki)

When changing 'guicursor' and the value is invalid, some of the effects would
still take place.  Now first check for errors and only make the new value
effective when it's OK.

Using "A" In Visual block mode, appending to lines that don't extend into the
block, padding was wrong.

When pasting a block of text, a character that occupies more than one screen
column could be deleted and spaces inserted instead.  Now only do that with a
tab.

Fixed conversion of documentation to HTML using Perl. (Dan Sharp)

Give an error message when a menu name starts with a dot.

Avoid a hang when executing a shell from the GUI on HP-UX by pushing "ptem"
even when sys/ptem.h isn't present.

When creating the temp directory, make sure umask is 077, otherwise the
directory is not accessible when it was set to 0177.

Unix: When resizing the window and a redraw is a bit slow, could get a window
resize event while redrawing, resulting in a messed up window.  Any input
(e.g., a mouse click) would redraw.

The "%B" item in the status line became zero in Insert mode (that's normal)
for another than the current window.

The menu entries to convert to xxd and back didn't work in Insert mode.

When ":vglobal" didn't find a line where the pattern doesn't match, the error
message would be the wrong way around.

When ignoring a multi-line error message with "%-A", the continuation lines
would be used anyway. (Servatius Brandt)

"grx" on a double-wide character inserted "x", instead of replacing the
character with "x ".  "gR" on <xx> ('display' set the "uhex") didn't replace
at all.  When doing "gRxx" on a control character the first "x" would be
inserted, breaking the alignment.

Added "0)" to 'cinkeys', so that when typing a ) it is put in the same place
as where "==" would put it.

Win32: When maximized, adding/removing toolbar didn't resize the text area.

When using <C-RightMouse> a count was discarded.

When typing CTRL-V and <RightMouse> in the command line, would insert
<LeftMouse>.

Using "vis" or "vas" when 'selection' is exclusive didn't include the last
character.

When adding to an option like 'grepprg', leading space would be lost.  Don't
expand environment variables when there is no comma separating the items.

GUI: When using a bold-italic font, would still use the bold trick and
underlining.

Motif: The default button didn't work in dialogs, the first one was always
used.  Had to give input focus to the default button.

When using CTRL-T to jump within the same file, the '' mark wasn't set.

Undo wasn't Vi compatible when using the 'c' flag for ":s".  Now it undoes the
whole ":s" command instead of each confirmed replacement.

The Buffers menu, when torn-off, disappeared when being refreshed.  Add a
dummy item to avoid this.

Removed calling msg_start() in main(), it should not be needed.

vim_strpbrk() did not support multibyte characters. (Muraoka Taro)

The Amiga version didn't compile, the code was too big for relative jumps.
Moved a few files from ex_docmd.c to ex_cmds2.c

When evaluating the "= register resulted in the "= register being changed, Vim
would crash.

When doing ":view file" and it fails, the current buffer was made read-only.

Motif: For some people the separators in the toolbar disappeared when resizing
the Vim window. (Marcin Dalecki)

Win32 GUI: when setting 'lines' to a huge number, would not compute the
available space correctly.  Was counting the menu height twice.

Conversion of the docs to HTML didn't handle the line with the +quickfix tag
correctly. (Antonio Colombo)

Win32: fname_case() didn't handle multi-byte characters correctly. (Yasuhiro
Matsumoto)

The Cygwin version had trouble with fchdir().  Don't use that function for
Cygwin.

The generic check in scripts.vim for "conf" syntax was done before some checks
in filetype.vim, resulting in "conf" syntax too often.

Dos32: Typing lagged behind.  Would wait for one biostick when checking if a
character is available.

GTK: When setting 'columns' while starting up "gvim", would set the width of
the terminal it was started in.

When using ESC in Insert mode, an autoindent that wraps to the next line
caused the cursor to move to the end of the line temporarily.  When the
character before the cursor was a double-wide multi-byte character the cursor
would be on the right halve, which causes problems with some terminals.

Didn't handle multi-byte characters correctly when expanding a file name.
(Yasuhiro Matsumoto)

Win32 GUI: Errors generated before the GUI is decided to start were not
reported.

globpath() didn't reserve enough room for concatenated results. (Anduin
Withers)

When expanding an option that is very long already, don't do the expansion, it
would be truncated to MAXPATHL. (Anduin Withers)

When 'selection' is "exclusive", using "Fx" in Visual mode only moved until
just after the character.

When using IME on the console to enter a file name, the screen may scroll up.
Redraw the screen then. (Yasuhiro Matsumoto)

Motif: In the find/replace dialog the "Replace" button didn't work first time,
second time it replaced all matches.  Removed the use of ":s///c".
GTK: Similar problems with the find/replace dialog, moved the code to a common
function.

X11: Use shared GC's for text. (Marcin Dalecki)

"]i" found the match under the cursor, instead of the first one below it.
Same for "]I", "] CTRL-I", "]d", "]D" and "] CTRL-D".

Win16: When maximized and the font is changed, don't change the window size.
(Vince Negri)

When 'lbr' is set, deleting a block of text could leave the cursor in the
wrong position.

Win32: When opening a file with the "Edit with Vim" popup menu entry,
wildcards would cause trouble.  Added the "--literal" argument to avoid
expanding file names.

When using "gv", it didn't restore that "$" was used in Visual block mode.

Win32 GUI: While waiting for a shell command to finish, the window wasn't
redrawn at all. (Yasuhiro Matsumoto)

Syntax highlighting: A match that continues on a next line because of a
contained region didn't end when that region ended.

The ":s" command didn't allow flags like 'e' and 'i' right after it.

When using ":s" to split a line, marks were moved to the next line.  Vi keeps
them in the first line.

When using ":n" ":rew", the previous context mark was at the top of the file,
while Vi puts it in the same place as the cursor.  Made it Vi compatible.

Fixed Vi incompatibility: Text was not put in register 1 when using "c" and
"d" with a motion character, when deleting within one line with one of the
commands: % ( ) `<character> / ? N n { }

Win32 GUI: The tooltip for tear-off items remained when the tear-off item was
no longer selected.

GUI: When typing ":" at the more prompt, would return to Normal mode and not
redraw the screen.

When starting Vim with an argument "-c g/at/p" the printed lines would
overwrite each other.

BeOS: Didn't compile.  Configure didn't add the os_beos files, the QNX check
removed them.  Various changes to os_beos.cc. (Joshua Haberman)
Removed the check for the hardware platform, the BeBox has not been produced
for a long time now.

Win32 GUI: don't use a message box when the shell returns an error code,
display the message in the Vim window.

Make_mvc.mak always included "/debug" for linking.  "GUI=no" argument didn't
work.  Use "DEBUG=yes" instead of "DEBUG=1" to make it consistent. (Dan Sharp)

When a line in the tags file ended in ;" (no TAB following) the command would
not be recognized as a search command.

X11: The inputMethod resource never worked.  Don't use the "none" input method
for SGI, it apparently makes the first character in Input method dropped.

Fixed incorrect tests in os_mac.h. (Axel Kielhorn)

Win32 console: When the console where Vim runs in is closed, Vim could hang in
trying to restore the window icon. (Yasuhiro Matsumoto)

When using ":3call func()" or ":3,3call func() the line number was ignored.

When 'showbreak' and 'linebreak' were both set, Visual highlighting sometimes
continued until the end of the line.

GTK GUI: Tearoff items were added even when 'guioptions' didn't contain 't'
when starting up.

MS-Windows: When the current directory includes a "~", searching files with
"gf" or ":find" didn't work.  A "$" in the directory had the same problem.
Added mch_has_exp_wildcard() functions.

When reducing the Vim window height while starting up, would get an
out-of-memory error message.

When editing a very long search pattern, 'incsearch' caused the redraw of the
command line to fail.

Motif GUI: On some systems the "Help" menu would not be on the far right, as
it should be.  On some other systems (esp. IRIX) the command line would not
completely show.  Solution is to only resize the menubar for Lesstif.

Using "%" in a line that contains "\\" twice didn't take care of the quotes
properly.  Now make a difference between \" and \\".

For non-Unix systems a dummy file is created when finding a swap name to
detect a 8.3 filesystem.  When there is an existing swap file, would get a
warning for the file being created outside of Vim.  Also, when closing the Vim
window the file would remain.

Motif: The menu height was always computed, using a "-menuheight" argument
was setting the room for the command line.  Now make clear the argument is not
supported.

For some (EBCDIC) systems, POUND was equal to '#'.  Added an #if for that to
avoid a duplicate case in a switch.

The GUI may have problems when forking.  Always call _exit() instead of exit()
in the parent, the child will call exit().

Win32 GUI: Accented characters were often wrong in dialogs and tearoff menus.
Now use CP_ACP instead of CP_OEMCP. (Vince Negri)

When displaying text with syntax highlighting causes an error (e.g., running
out of stack) the syntax highlighting is disabled to avoid further messages.

When a command in a .vimrc or .gvimrc causes an ATTENTION prompt, and Vim was
started from the desktop (no place to display messages) it would hang.  Now
open the GUI window early to be able to display the messages and pop up the
dialog.

"r<CR>" on a multi-byte character deleted only the first byte of the
character.  "3r<CR>" deleted three bytes instead of three characters.

When interrupting reading a file, Vi considers the buffer modified.  Added the
'i' flag in 'cpoptions' flag for this (we don't want it modified to be able to
do ":q").

When using an item in 'guicursor' that starts with a colon, Vim would get
stuck or crash.

When putting a file mark in a help file and later jumping back to it, the
options would not be set.  Extended the modeline in all help files to make
this work better.

When a modeline contained "::" the local option values would be printed.  Now
ignore it.

Some help files did not use a 8.3 names, which causes problems when using
MS-DOS unzip.  Renamed "multibyte.txt" to "mbyte.txt", "rightleft.txt" to
"rileft.txt", "tagsearch.txt" to "tagsrch.txt", "os_riscos.txt" to
"os_risc.txt".

When Visual mode is blockwise, using "iw" or "aw" made it characterwise.  That
doesn't seem right, only do this when in linewise mode.  But then do it
always, not only when start and end of Visual mode are equal.

When using "viw" on a single-letter word and 'selection' is exclusive, would
not include the word.

When formatting text from Insert mode, using CTRL-O, could mess up undo
information.

While writing a file (also for the backup file) there was no check for an
interrupt (hitting CTRL-C).  Vim could hang when writing a large file over a
slow network, and moving the mouse didn't make it appear (when 'mousehide' is
set) and the screen wasn't updated in the GUI.  Also allow interrupting when
syncing the swap file, it can take a long time.

When using ":mksession" while there is help window, it would later be restored
to the right file but not marked as a help buffer.  ":help" would then open
another window.  Now use the value "help" for 'buftype' to mark a help buffer.

The session file contained absolute path names in option values, that doesn't
work when the home directory depends on the situation.  Replace the home
directory with ~/ when possible.

When using 'showbreak' a TAB just after the shown break would not be counted
correctly, the cursor would be positioned wrong.

With 'showbreak' set to "--->" or "------->" and 'sts' set to 4, inserting
tabs did not work right.  Could cause a crash.  Backspacing was also wrong,
could get stuck at a line break.

Win32: crashed when tearing off a menu with over 300 items.

GUI: A menu or toolbar item would appear when only a tooltip was defined for
it.

When 'scrolloff' is non-zero and "$" is in 'cpoptions', using "s" while the
last line of the file is the first line on screen, the text wasn't displayed.

When running "autoconf", delete the configure cache to force starting cleanly
when configure is run again.

When changing the Normal colors for cterm, the value of 'background' was
changed even when the GUI was used.

The warning for a missing vimrun.exe was always given on startup, but some
people just editing a file don't need to be bothered by it.  Only show it when
vimrun would be used.

When using "%" in a multibyte text it could get confused by trailbytes that
match. (Muraoka Taro)

Termcap entry for RiscOS was wrong, using 7 and 8 in octal codes.

Athena: The title of a dialog window and the file selector window were not
set. (David Harrison)

The "htmlLink" highlight group specified colors, which gives problems when
using a color scheme.  Added the "Underlined" highlight group for this.

After using ":insert" or ":change" the '[ mark would be one line too low.

When looking for the file name after a match with 'include' one character was
skipped.  Same for 'define'.

Win32 and DJGPP: When editing a file with a short name in a directory, and
editing the same file but using the long name, would end up with two buffers
on the same file.

"gf" on a filename that starts with "../" only worked when the file being
edited is in the current directory.  An include file search didn't work
properly for files starting with "../" or ".".  Now search both relative to
the file and to the current directory.

When 'printheader', 'titlestring', 'iconstring', 'rulerformat' or 'statusline'
contained "%{" but no following "}" memory was corrupted and a crash could
happen.

":0append" and then inserting two lines did not redraw the blank lines that
were scrolled back down.

When using insert mode completion in a narrow window, the message caused a
scroll up.  Now shorten the message if it doesn't fit and avoid writing the
ruler over the message.

XIM still didn't work correctly on some systems, especially SGI/IRIX.  Added
the 'imdisable' option, which is set by default for that system.

Patch 6.0aw.008
Problem:    When the first character of a file name is over 127, the Buffers
	    menu entry would get a negative priority and cause problems.
Solution:   Reduce the multiplier for the first character when computing
	    the hash value for a Buffers menu entry.
Files:	    runtime/menu.vim

Patch 6.0aw.010
Problem:    Win32: ":browse edit dir/dir" didn't work. (Vikas)
Solution:   Change slashes to backslashes in the directory passed to the file
	    browser.
Files:	    src/gui_w48.c

Athena file browser: On some systems wcstombs() can't be used to get the
length of a multi-byte string.  Use the maximum length then. (Yasuhiro
Matsumoto)

Patch 6.0ax.001
Problem:    When 'patchmode' is set, appending to a file gives an empty
	    original file. (Ed Ralston)
Solution:   Also make a backup copy when appending and 'patchmode' is set.
Files:	    src/fileio.c

Patch 6.0ax.002
Problem:    When 'patchmode' is set, appending to a compressed file gives an
	    uncompressed original file. (Ed Ralston)
Solution:   Create the original file before decompressing.
Files:	    runtime/plugin/gzip.vim

Patch 6.0ax.005
Problem:    Athena file selector keeps the title of the first invocation.
Solution:   Set the title each time the file selector is opened. (David
	    Harrison)
Files:	    src/gui_at_fs.c

Patch 6.0ax.007
Problem:    When using GPM (mouse driver in a Linux console) a double click is
	    interpreted as a scroll wheel click.
Solution:   Check if GPM is being used when deciding if a mouse event is for
	    the scroll wheel.
Files:	    src/term.c

Patch 6.0ax.010
Problem:    The Edit.Save menu and the Save toolbar button didn't work when
	    the buffer has no file name.
Solution:   Use a file browser to ask for a file name.  Also fix the toolbar
	    Find item in Visual mode.
Files:	    runtime/menu.vim

Patch 6.0ax.012
Problem:    When 'cpoptions' contains "$", breaking a line for 'textwidth'
	    doesn't redraw properly. (Stefan Schulze)
Solution:   Remove the dollar before breaking the line.
Files:	    src/edit.c

Patch 6.0ax.014
Problem:    Win32: On Windows 98 ":make -f file" doesn't work when 'shell' is
	    "command.com" and 'makeprg' is "nmake".  The environment isn't
	    passed on to "nmake".
Solution:   Also use vimrun.exe when redirecting the output of a command.
Files:	    src/os_win32.c

Patch 6.0ax.016
Problem:    The version number was reported wrong in the intro screen.
Solution:   Check for a version number with two additional letters.
Files:	    src/version.c

Patch 6.0ax.019
Problem:    When scrolling a window with folds upwards, switching to another
	    vertically split window and back may not update the scrollbar.
Solution:   Limit w_botline to the number of lines in the buffer plus one.
Files:	    src/move.c


