4.  Fast Recovery

   After fast retransmit sends what appears to be the missing segment,
   congestion avoidance, but not slow start is performed.  This is the
   fast recovery algorithm.  It is an improvement that allows high
   throughput under moderate congestion, especially for large windows.

   The reason for not performing slow start in this case is that the
   receipt of the duplicate ACKs tells TCP more than just a packet has
   been lost.  Since the receiver can only generate the duplicate ACK
   when another segment is received, that segment has left the network
   and is in the receiver's buffer.  That is, there is still data
   flowing between the two ends, and TCP does not want to reduce the
   flow abruptly by going into slow start.

   The fast retransmit and fast recovery algorithms are usually
   implemented together as follows.






Stevens                     Standards Track                     [Page 4]

RFC 2001                          TCP                       January 1997


   1.  When the third duplicate ACK in a row is received, set ssthresh
       to one-half the current congestion window, cwnd, but no less
       than two segments.  Retransmit the missing segment.  Set cwnd to
       ssthresh plus 3 times the segment size.  This inflates the
       congestion window by the number of segments that have left the
       network and which the other end has cached (3).

   2.  Each time another duplicate ACK arrives, increment cwnd by the
       segment size.  This inflates the congestion window for the
       additional segment that has left the network.  Transmit a
       packet, if allowed by the new value of cwnd.

   3.  When the next ACK arrives that acknowledges new data, set cwnd
       to ssthresh (the value set in step 1).  This ACK should be the
       acknowledgment of the retransmission from step 1, one round-trip
       time after the retransmission.  Additionally, this ACK should
       acknowledge all the intermediate segments sent between the lost
       packet and the receipt of the first duplicate ACK.  This step is
       congestion avoidance, since TCP is down to one-half the rate it
       was at when the packet was lost.

   The fast retransmit algorithm first appeared in the 4.3BSD Tahoe
   release, and it was followed by slow start.  The fast recovery
   algorithm appeared in the 4.3BSD Reno release.

