4 CGDB configuration commands
*****************************

There may be several features that you find useful in CGDB. CGDB is
capable of automating any of these commands through the use of the
config file called 'cgdbrc'.  It looks in '$HOME''/.cgdb/' for that
file.  If it exists, CGDB executes each line in the file in order.  It
is as if the user typed in all the commands into the status bar after
the tui was initialized.

   The following variables change the behavior of some aspect of CGDB.
Many of these commands may be abbreviated in some way, and all boolean
commands my be negated by appending 'no' to the front.  For example:
':set ignorecase' turns on case-insensitive searching; while ':set
noignorecase' turns on case-sensitive searching.

':set as=STYLE'
':set arrowstyle=STYLE'
     Set the arrow style to STYLE.  Possible values for STYLE are
     'short', 'long', and 'highlight'.  Changes the style of the arrow
     that is used to indicate the currently executing line in the source
     viewer.  The default value is short.  A longer arrow is available,
     for easier readability.  Finally, the 'highlight' option draws no
     arrow at all, instead drawing the entire line in inverse video.

':set asr'
':set autosourcereload'
     If this is on, CGDB will automatically reload a source file if it
     has changed since CGDB has opened it.  If it is off, the file will
     never be reloaded, until you start CGDB again.  The default is on.
     This feature is useful when you are debugging a program, then you
     modify a source file, recompile, and type 'r' in GDB's CLI window.
     The file in this case will be updated to show the new version.
     Note, CGDB only looks at the timestamp of the source file to
     determine if it has changed.  So if you modify the source file, and
     didn't recompile yet, CGDB will still pick up on the changes.

':set cgdbmodekey=KEY'
     This option is used to determine what key puts CGDB into "CGDB
     Mode".  By default, the 'ESC' key is used.  KEY can be any normal
     key on the keyboard.  It can also be any keycode, as long as the
     keycode notation is used.  This option is especially useful when
     the user wants to use readline in vi mode.  If the user types 'set
     cgdbmodekey=<PageUp>' then the 'Page Up' key will put CGDB into
     CGDB mode and the 'ESC' key will flow through to readline.

':set ic'
':set ignorecase'
     Sets searching case insensitive.  The default is off.

':set stc'
':set showtgdbcommands'
     If this is on, CGDB will show all of the commands that it sends to
     GDB. If it is off, CGDB will not show the commands that it gives to
     GDB. The default is off.

':set syn=STYLE'
':set syntax=STYLE'
     Sets the current highlighting mode of the current file to have the
     syntax STYLE.  Possible values for SYNTAX are 'c', 'ada', and
     'off'.  Normally, the user will never have to do this, since CGDB
     automatically detects what syntax a file should be based on its
     file extension.  However, this feature can currently be useful for
     debugging purposes.

':set to'
':set timeout'
     This option is used along with the TTIMEOUT option to determine the
     behavior CGDB should have when it receives part of a mapped key
     sequence or a keyboard code sequence.  If this option is on, CGDB
     will time out on both user defined mappings and on key codes from
     the keyboard.  If this option is off, user defined mappings will
     not be timed out on.  In this case, CGDB will determine if it
     should time out on key codes from the keyboard by examining the
     TTIMEOUT option.  To determine how CGDB will time out on mappings
     and key codes, and what time out lengths CGDB will use, please
     refer to the chart in *note Key User Interface::.  The default
     value for this option is on.

':set tm=DELAY'
':set timeoutlen=DELAY'
     This option is used along with the TTIMEOUTLEN option.  It
     represents the number of milliseconds that CGDB should wait for a
     key code from the keyboard or for a mapped key sequence to
     complete.  If DELAY is 0, CGDB immediately accepts each character
     it receives.  This will prevent any mappings or key codes to
     complete.  DELAY may be any value between 0 and 10000, inclusive.
     The default setting for the DELAY variable is 1000 (one second).

':set ttimeout'
     This option is used along with the TIMEOUT option to determine the
     behavior CGDB should have when it receives part of keyboard code
     sequence.  If this option is on, CGDB will time out on key codes
     from the keyboard.  If this option is off, CGDB will determine if
     it should time out on key codes from the keyboard by examining the
     TIMEOUT option.  To determine how CGDB will time out on key codes,
     what what time length it will use, please refer to the chart in
     *note Key User Interface::.  The default value for this option is
     on.

':set ttm=DELAY'
':set ttimeoutlen=DELAY'
     This option is used along with the TTIMEOUTLEN option.  It
     represents the number of milliseconds that CGDB should wait for a
     key code from the keyboard.  If DELAY is 0, CGDB immediately
     accepts each character it receives.  This will prevent any key
     codes to complete.  DELAY may be any value between 0 and 10000,
     inclusive.  The default setting for the DELAY variable is 100 (one
     tenth of a second).

':set ts=NUMBER'
':set tabstop=NUMBER'
     Sets the number of spaces that should be rendered on the screen for
     <TAB> characters.  The default value for NUMBER is 8.

':set wmh=NUMBER'
':set winminheight=NUMBER'
     The minimal height of a window.  Windows will never become smaller
     than this value.  The default value for NUMBER is 0.

':set winsplit=STYLE'
     Set the split point between source and GDB window.  This is
     especially useful as an init setting in your 'cgdbrc' file.  *Note
     Configuring CGDB::.  The possible values for STYLE are 'top_full',
     'top_big', 'even', 'bottom_big', and 'bottom_full'.

':set ws'
':set wrapscan'
     Searches wrap around the end of file.  The default is on.

':c'
':continue'
     Send a continue command to GDB.

':down'
     Send a down command to GDB.

':e'
':edit'
     reloads the file in the source window.  this can be useful if the
     file has changed since it was opened by cgdb.

':f'
':finish'
     Send a finish command to GDB.

':help'
     This will display the current manual in text format, in the "source
     window".

':hi GROUP cterm=ATTRIBUTES ctermfg=COLOR ctermbg=COLOR term=ATTRIBUTES'
':highlight GROUP cterm=ATTRIBUTES ctermfg=COLOR ctermbg=COLOR term=ATTRIBUTES'
     Set the COLOR and ATTRIBUTES for a highlighting group.  The syntax
     mimics vim's "highlight" command.  Possible values for GROUP,
     ATTRIBUTES and COLOR are available in *note Highlighting Groups::.

     You can give as many or as few of the name=value pairs as you wish,
     in any order.  'ctermfg' and 'ctermbg' set the foreground and
     background colors.  These can be specified by color number or by
     using the same color names that vim uses.  When CGDB is linked with
     ncurses, the number you use to represent the color can be between
     -1 and COLORS. When CGDB is linked against curses, it must be
     between 0 and COLORS.

     'cterm' sets the video attributes for color terminals.  'term' sets
     the video attributes for monochrome terminals.  Some examples are,
          :highlight Logo cterm=bold,underline ctermfg=Red ctermbg=Black
          :highlight Normal cterm=reverse ctermfg=White ctermbg=Black
          :hi Normal term=bold

':insert'
     Move focus to the GDB window.

':n'
':next'
     Send a next command to GDB.

':q'
':quit'
     Quit CGDB.

':r'
':run'
     Send a run command to GDB.

':start'
     Send a start command to GDB.

':k'
':kill'
     Send a kill command to GDB.

':s'
':step'
     Send a step command to GDB.

':syntax'
     Turn the syntax on or off.

':up'
     Send an up command to GDB.

':map LHS RHS'
     Create a new mapping or overwrite an existing mapping in CGDB mode.
     After the command is run, if LHS is typed, CGDB will get RHS
     instead.  For more details on how to use the map command look in
     *note Using Maps::.
':unm LHS'
':unmap LHS'
     Delete an existing mapping from CGDB mode.  LHS is what was typed
     in the left hand side when the user created the mapping.  For
     example, if the user typed ':map a<Space>b foo' then the user could
     delete the existing mapping with ':unmap a<Space>b'.
':im LHS RHS'
':imap LHS RHS'
     Create a new mapping or overwrite an existing mapping in GDB mode.
     After the command is run, if LHS is typed, CGDB will get RHS
     instead.  For more details on how to use the map command look in
     *note Using Maps::.
':iu LHS'
':iunmap LHS'
     Delete an existing mapping from GDB mode.  LHS is what was typed in
     the left hand side when the user created the mapping.  For example,
     if the user typed ':imap a<Space>b foo' then the user could delete
     the existing mapping with ':iunmap a<Space>b'.

File: cgdb.info,  Node: Highlighting Groups,  Next: Key User Interface,  Prev: Configuring CGDB,  Up: Top

