3.  VRRP Overview

   VRRP specifies an election protocol to provide the virtual router
   function described earlier.  All protocol messaging is performed
   using either IPv4 or IPv6 multicast datagrams; thus, the protocol can
   operate over a variety of multiaccess LAN technologies supporting
   IPvX multicast.  Each link of a VRRP virtual router has a single
   well-known MAC address allocated to it.  This document currently only
   details the mapping to networks using the IEEE 802 48-bit MAC
   address.  The virtual router MAC address is used as the source in all
   periodic VRRP messages sent by the Master router to enable bridge
   learning in an extended LAN.

   A virtual router is defined by its virtual router identifier (VRID)
   and a set of either IPv4 or IPv6 address(es).  A VRRP router may
   associate a virtual router with its real address on an interface.
   The scope of each virtual router is restricted to a single LAN.  A
   VRRP router may be configured with additional virtual router mappings
   and priority for virtual routers it is willing to back up.  The
   mapping between the VRID and its IPvX address(es) must be coordinated
   among all VRRP routers on a LAN.

   There is no restriction against reusing a VRID with a different
   address mapping on different LANs, nor is there a restriction against
   using the same VRID number for a set of IPv4 addresses and a set of
   IPv6 addresses; however, these are two different virtual routers.

   To minimize network traffic, only the Master for each virtual router
   sends periodic VRRP Advertisement messages.  A Backup router will not
   attempt to preempt the Master unless it has higher priority.  This
   eliminates service disruption unless a more preferred path becomes
   available.  It's also possible to administratively prohibit all
   preemption attempts.  The only exception is that a VRRP router will
   always become Master of any virtual router associated with addresses
   it owns.  If the Master becomes unavailable, then the highest-
   priority Backup will transition to Master after a short delay,
   providing a controlled transition of the virtual router
   responsibility with minimal service interruption.

   The VRRP protocol design provides rapid transition from Backup to
   Master to minimize service interruption and incorporates
   optimizations that reduce protocol complexity while guaranteeing




Nadas                        Standards Track                   [Page 10]

RFC 5798                VRRPv3 for IPv4 and IPv6              March 2010


   controlled Master transition for typical operational scenarios.  The
   optimizations result in an election protocol with minimal runtime
   state requirements, minimal active protocol states, and a single
   message type and sender.  The typical operational scenarios are
   defined to be two redundant routers and/or distinct path preferences
   among each router.  A side effect when these assumptions are violated
   (i.e., more than two redundant paths, all with equal preference) is
   that duplicate packets may be forwarded for a brief period during
   Master election.  However, the typical scenario assumptions are
   likely to cover the vast majority of deployments, loss of the Master
   router is infrequent, and the expected duration in Master election
   convergence is quite small ( << 1 second ).  Thus, the VRRP
   optimizations represent significant simplifications in the protocol
   design while incurring an insignificant probability of brief network
   degradation.

