Abstract

   This memo defines the Virtual Router Redundancy Protocol (VRRP) for
   IPv4 and IPv6.  It is version three (3) of the protocol, and it is
   based on VRRP (version 2) for IPv4 that is defined in RFC 3768 and in
   "Virtual Router Redundancy Protocol for IPv6".  VRRP specifies an
   election protocol that dynamically assigns responsibility for a
   virtual router to one of the VRRP routers on a LAN.  The VRRP router
   controlling the IPv4 or IPv6 address(es) associated with a virtual
   router is called the Master, and it forwards packets sent to these
   IPv4 or IPv6 addresses.  VRRP Master routers are configured with
   virtual IPv4 or IPv6 addresses, and VRRP Backup routers infer the
   address family of the virtual addresses being carried based on the
   transport protocol.  Within a VRRP router, the virtual routers in
   each of the IPv4 and IPv6 address families are a domain unto
   themselves and do not overlap.  The election process provides dynamic
   failover in the forwarding responsibility should the Master become
   unavailable.  For IPv4, the advantage gained from using VRRP is a
   higher-availability default path without requiring configuration of
   dynamic routing or router discovery protocols on every end-host.  For
   IPv6, the advantage gained from using VRRP for IPv6 is a quicker
   switchover to Backup routers than can be obtained with standard IPv6
   Neighbor Discovery mechanisms.

Status of This Memo

   This is an Internet Standards Track document.

   This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force
   (IETF).  It represents the consensus of the IETF community.  It has
   received public review and has been approved for publication by the
   Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG).  Further information on
   Internet Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 5741.

   Information about the current status of this document, any errata,
   and how to provide feedback on it may be obtained at
   http://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5798.





Nadas                        Standards Track                    [Page 1]

RFC 5798                VRRPv3 for IPv4 and IPv6              March 2010


Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2010 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents
   (http://trustee.ietf.org/license-info) in effect on the date of
   publication of this document.  Please review these documents
   carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions with respect
   to this document.  Code Components extracted from this document must
   include Simplified BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of
   the Trust Legal Provisions and are provided without warranty as
   described in the Simplified BSD License.

   This document may contain material from IETF Documents or IETF
   Contributions published or made publicly available before November
   10, 2008.  The person(s) controlling the copyright in some of this
   material may not have granted the IETF Trust the right to allow
   modifications of such material outside the IETF Standards Process.
   Without obtaining an adequate license from the person(s) controlling
   the copyright in such materials, this document may not be modified
   outside the IETF Standards Process, and derivative works of it may
   not be created outside the IETF Standards Process, except to format
   it for publication as an RFC or to translate it into languages other
   than English.

