1.2.  IPv4

   There are a number of methods that an IPv4 end-host can use to
   determine its first-hop router towards a particular IPv4 destination.
   These include running (or snooping) a dynamic routing protocol such
   as Routing Information Protocol [RFC2453] or OSPF version 2
   [RFC2328], running an ICMP router discovery client [RFC1256], or
   using a statically configured default route.

   Running a dynamic routing protocol on every end-host may be
   infeasible for a number of reasons, including administrative
   overhead, processing overhead, security issues, or lack of a protocol
   implementation for some platforms.  Neighbor or router discovery
   protocols may require active participation by all hosts on a network,
   leading to large timer values to reduce protocol overhead in the face
   of large numbers of hosts.  This can result in a significant delay in
   the detection of a lost (i.e., dead) neighbor; such a delay may
   introduce unacceptably long "black hole" periods.

   The use of a statically configured default route is quite popular; it
   minimizes configuration and processing overhead on the end-host and
   is supported by virtually every IPv4 implementation.  This mode of
   operation is likely to persist as dynamic host configuration
   protocols [RFC2131] are deployed, which typically provide
   configuration for an end-host IPv4 address and default gateway.
   However, this creates a single point of failure.  Loss of the default
   router results in a catastrophic event, isolating all end-hosts that
   are unable to detect any alternate path that may be available.

   The Virtual Router Redundancy Protocol (VRRP) is designed to
   eliminate the single point of failure inherent in the static default-
   routed environment.  VRRP specifies an election protocol that
   dynamically assigns responsibility for a virtual router to one of the
   VRRP routers on a LAN.  The VRRP router controlling the IPv4
   address(es) associated with a virtual router is called the Master and
   forwards packets sent to these IPv4 addresses.  The election process
   provides dynamic failover in the forwarding responsibility should the
   Master become unavailable.  Any of the virtual router's IPv4
   addresses on a LAN can then be used as the default first hop









Nadas                        Standards Track                    [Page 5]

RFC 5798                VRRPv3 for IPv4 and IPv6              March 2010


   router by end-hosts.  The advantage gained from using VRRP is a
   higher availability default path without requiring configuration of
   dynamic routing or router discovery protocols on every end-host.

