8.2.2.  ND Neighbor Solicitation

   When a host sends an ND Neighbor Solicitation message for the virtual
   router IPv6 address, the Virtual Router Master MUST respond to the ND
   Neighbor Solicitation message with the virtual MAC address for the
   virtual router.  The Virtual Router Master MUST NOT respond with its
   physical MAC address.  This allows the client to always use the same
   MAC address regardless of the current Master router.

   When a Virtual Router Master sends an ND Neighbor Solicitation
   message for a host's IPv6 address, the Virtual Router Master MUST
   include the virtual MAC address for the virtual router if it sends a
   source link-layer address option in the neighbor solicitation
   message.  It MUST NOT use its physical MAC address in the source
   link-layer address option.

   When a VRRP router restarts or boots, it SHOULD NOT send any ND
   messages with its physical MAC address for the IPv6 address it owns;
   it should only send ND messages that include virtual MAC addresses.



Nadas                        Standards Track                   [Page 30]

RFC 5798                VRRPv3 for IPv4 and IPv6              March 2010


   This may entail the following:

   o  When configuring an interface, Virtual Router Master routers
      should send an unsolicited ND Neighbor Advertisement message
      containing the virtual router MAC address for the IPv6 address on
      that interface.

   o  At system boot, when initializing interfaces for VRRP operation,
      all ND Router and Neighbor Advertisements and Solicitation
      messages must be delayed until both the IPv6 address and the
      virtual router MAC address are configured.

   Note that on a restarting Master router where the VRRP protected
   address is the interface address, (that is, priority 255) duplicate
   address detection (DAD) may fail, as the Backup router may answer
   that it owns the address.  One solution is to not run DAD in this
   case.

