1.3.  IPv6

   IPv6 hosts on a LAN will usually learn about one or more default
   routers by receiving Router Advertisements sent using the IPv6
   Neighbor Discovery (ND) protocol [RFC4861].  The Router
   Advertisements are multicast periodically at a rate that the hosts
   will learn about the default routers in a few minutes.  They are not
   sent frequently enough to rely on the absence of the Router
   Advertisement to detect router failures.

   Neighbor Discovery (ND) includes a mechanism called Neighbor
   Unreachability Detection to detect the failure of a neighbor node
   (router or host) or the forwarding path to a neighbor.  This is done
   by sending unicast ND Neighbor Solicitation messages to the neighbor
   node.  To reduce the overhead of sending Neighbor Solicitations, they
   are only sent to neighbors to which the node is actively sending
   traffic and only after there has been no positive indication that the
   router is up for a period of time.  Using the default parameters in
   ND, it will take a host about 38 seconds to learn that a router is
   unreachable before it will switch to another default router.  This
   delay would be very noticeable to users and cause some transport
   protocol implementations to time out.

   While the ND unreachability detection could be made quicker by
   changing the parameters to be more aggressive (note that the current
   lower limit for this is 5 seconds), this would have the downside of
   significantly increasing the overhead of ND traffic, especially when
   there are many hosts all trying to determine the reachability of one
   of more routers.

   The Virtual Router Redundancy Protocol for IPv6 provides a much
   faster switchover to an alternate default router than can be obtained
   using standard ND procedures.  Using VRRP, a Backup router can take
   over for a failed default router in around three seconds (using VRRP
   default parameters).  This is done without any interaction with the
   hosts and a minimum amount of VRRP traffic.

