1.6.  Definitions

   VRRP Router             A router running the Virtual Router
                           Redundancy Protocol.  It may participate as
                           one or more virtual routers.

   Virtual Router          An abstract object managed by VRRP that acts
                           as a default router for hosts on a shared
                           LAN.  It consists of a Virtual Router
                           Identifier and either a set of associated
                           IPv4 addresses or a set of associated IPv6
                           addresses across a common LAN.  A VRRP Router
                           may back up one or more virtual routers.

   IP Address Owner        The VRRP router that has the virtual router's
                           IPvX address(es) as real interface
                           address(es).  This is the router that, when
                           up, will respond to packets addressed to one
                           of these IPvX addresses for ICMP pings, TCP
                           connections, etc.

   Primary IP Address      In IPv4, an IPv4 address selected from the
                           set of real interface addresses.  One
                           possible selection algorithm is to always
                           select the first address.  In IPv4 mode, VRRP
                           advertisements are always sent using the
                           primary IPv4 address as the source of the
                           IPv4 packet.  In IPv6, the link-local address
                           of the interface over which the packet is
                           transmitted is used.

   Virtual Router Master   The VRRP router that is assuming the
                           responsibility of forwarding packets sent to
                           the IPvX address(es) associated with the
                           virtual router, answering ARP requests






Nadas                        Standards Track                    [Page 7]

RFC 5798                VRRPv3 for IPv4 and IPv6              March 2010


                           for the IPv4 address(es), and answering ND
                           requests for the IPv6 address(es).  Note that
                           if the IPvX address owner is available, then
                           it will always become the Master.

   Virtual Router Backup   The set of VRRP routers available to assume
                           forwarding responsibility for a virtual
                           router should the current Master fail.

