9.  Security Considerations

   VRRP for IPvX does not currently include any type of authentication.
   Earlier versions of the VRRP (for IPv4) specification included
   several types of authentication ranging from none to strong.
   Operational experience and further analysis determined that these did
   not provide sufficient security to overcome the vulnerability of
   misconfigured secrets, causing multiple Masters to be elected.  Due
   to the nature of the VRRP protocol, even if VRRP messages are
   cryptographically protected, it does not prevent hostile nodes from
   behaving as if they are a VRRP Master, creating multiple Masters.
   Authentication of VRRP messages could have prevented a hostile node
   from causing all properly functioning routers from going into Backup
   state.  However, having multiple Masters can cause as much disruption
   as no routers, which authentication cannot prevent.  Also, even if a
   hostile node could not disrupt VRRP, it can disrupt ARP and create
   the same effect as having all routers go into Backup.








Nadas                        Standards Track                   [Page 33]

RFC 5798                VRRPv3 for IPv4 and IPv6              March 2010


   Some L2 switches provide the capability to filter out, for example,
   ARP and/or ND messages from end-hosts on a switch-port basis.  This
   mechanism could also filter VRRP messages from switch ports
   associated with end-hosts and can be considered for deployments with
   untrusted hosts.

   It should be noted that these attacks are not worse and are a subset
   of the attacks that any node attached to a LAN can do independently
   of VRRP.  The kind of attacks a malicious node on a LAN can do
   include promiscuously receiving packets for any router's MAC address;
   sending packets with the router's MAC address as the source MAC
   address in the L2 header to tell the L2 switches to send packets
   addressed to the router to the malicious node instead of the router;
   send redirects to tell the hosts to send their traffic somewhere
   else; send unsolicited ND replies; answer ND requests; etc.  All of
   this can be done independently of implementing VRRP.  VRRP does not
   add to these vulnerabilities.

   Independent of any authentication type, VRRP includes a mechanism
   (setting TTL = 255, checking on receipt) that protects against VRRP
   packets being injected from another remote network.  This limits most
   vulnerabilities to local attacks.

   VRRP does not provide any confidentiality.  Confidentiality is not
   necessary for the correct operation of VRRP, and there is no
   information in the VRRP messages that must be kept secret from other
   nodes on the LAN.

   In the context of IPv6 operation, if SEcure Neighbor Discovery (SEND)
   is deployed, VRRP is compatible with the "trust anchor" and "trust
   anchor or cga" modes of SEND [RFC3971].  The SEND configuration needs
   to give the Master and Backup routers the same prefix delegation in
   the certificates so that Master and Backup routers advertise the same
   set of subnet prefixes.  However, the Master and Backup routers
   should have their own key pairs to avoid private key sharing.

