OPEN INTERFACE
       The  ipmitool open interface utilizes the OpenIPMI kernel device driver.  This driver is present in all modern
       2.4 and all 2.6 kernels and it should be present in recent Linux distribution kernels.  There  are  also  IPMI
       driver kernel patches for different kernel versions available from the OpenIPMI homepage.

       The required kernel modules is different for 2.4 and 2.6 kernels.  The following kernel modules must be loaded
       on a 2.4-based kernel in order for ipmitool to work:

       ipmi_msghandler
              Incoming and outgoing message handler for IPMI interfaces.

       ipmi_kcs_drv
              An IPMI Keyboard Controller Style (KCS) interface driver for the message handler.

       ipmi_devintf
              Linux character device interface for the message handler.

       The following kernel modules must be loaded on a 2.6-based kernel in order for ipmitool to work:

       ipmi_msghandler
              Incoming and outgoing message handler for IPMI interfaces.

       ipmi_si
              An IPMI system interface driver for the message handler.  This module supports various IPMI system  in-
              terfaces such as KCS, BT, SMIC, and even SMBus in 2.6 kernels.

       ipmi_devintf
              Linux character device interface for the message handler.

       Once  the  required  modules  are  loaded  there  will  be a dynamic character device entry that must exist at
       /dev/ipmi0.  For systems that use devfs or udev this will appear at /dev/ipmi/0.

       To create the device node first determine what dynamic major number it was assigned by the kernel  by  looking
       in  /proc/devices  and checking for the ipmidev entry.  Usually if this is the first dynamic device it will be
       major number 254 and the minor number for the first system interface is 0 so you would create the device entry
       with:

       mknod /dev/ipmi0 c 254 0

       ipmitool includes some sample initialization scripts that can perform this task automatically at start-up.

       In order to have ipmitool use the OpenIPMI device interface you can specify it on the command line:

       ipmitool -I open <command>

