LANPLUS INTERFACE
       Like the lan interface, the lanplus interface communicates with the BMC over an Ethernet LAN connection  using
       UDP under IPv4.  The difference is that the lanplus interface uses the RMCP+ protocol as described in the IPMI
       v2.0 specification.  RMCP+ allows for improved authentication and data integrity checks, as well as encryption
       and  the  ability to carry multiple types of payloads.  Generic Serial Over LAN support requires RMCP+, so the
       ipmitool sol activate command requires the use of the lanplus interface.

       RMCP+ session establishment uses a symmetric challenge-response protocol  called  RAKP  (Remote  Authenticated
       Key-Exchange  Protocol) which allows the negotiation of many options.  ipmitool does not yet allow the user to
       specify the value of every option, defaulting to the most obvious settings marked  as  required  in  the  v2.0
       specification.   Authentication  and  integrity HMACS are produced with SHA1, and encryption is performed with
       AES-CBC-128.  Role-level logins are not yet supported.

       ipmitool must be linked with the OpenSSL library in order to perform the encryption functions and support  the
       lanplus interface.  If the required packages are not found it will not be compiled in and supported.

       You can tell ipmitool to use the lanplus interface with the -I lanplus option:

       ipmitool -I lanplus -H <hostname> [-U <username>] [-P <password>] <command>

       A hostname must be given on the command line in order to use the lan interface with ipmitool.  With the excep-
       tion of the -A and -C options the rest of the command line options are identical to those  available  for  the
       lan interface.

       The  -C option allows you specify the authentication, integrity, and encryption algorithms to use for for lan-
       plus session based on the cipher suite ID found in the IPMIv2.0 specification in table 22-19.  The default ci-
       pher suite is 3 which specifies RAKP-HMAC-SHA1 authentication, HMAC-SHA1-96 integrity, and AES-CBC-128 encryp-
       tion algorightms.

