1. Acknowledgements

   This document was originally published as RFC 1267 in October 1991,
   jointly authored by Kirk Lougheed (cisco Systems) and Yakov Rekhter
   (IBM).

   We would like to express our thanks to Guy Almes (ANS), Len Bosack
   (cisco Systems), and Jeffrey C. Honig (Cornell University) for their
   contributions to the earlier version of this document.

   We like to explicitly thank Bob Braden (ISI) for the review of the
   earlier version of this document as well as his constructive and
   valuable comments.

   We would also like to thank Bob Hinden, Director for Routing of the
   Internet Engineering Steering Group, and the team of reviewers he
   assembled to review the previous version (BGP-2) of this document.
   This team, consisting of Deborah Estrin, Milo Medin, John Moy, Radia
   Perlman, Martha Steenstrup, Mike St. Johns, and Paul Tsuchiya, acted
   with a strong combination of toughness, professionalism, and
   courtesy.






Rekhter & Li                                                    [Page 1]

RFC 1771                         BGP-4                        March 1995


   This updated version of the document is the product of the IETF IDR
   Working Group with Yakov Rekhter and Tony Li as editors. Certain
   sections of the document borrowed heavily from IDRP [7], which is the
   OSI counterpart of BGP. For this credit should be given to the ANSI
   X3S3.3 group chaired by Lyman Chapin (BBN) and to Charles Kunzinger
   (IBM Corp.) who was the IDRP editor within that group.  We would also
   like to thank Mike Craren (Proteon, Inc.), Dimitry Haskin (Bay
   Networks, Inc.), John Krawczyk (Bay Networks, Inc.), and Paul Traina
   (cisco Systems) for their insightful comments.

   We would like to specially acknowledge numerous contributions by
   Dennis Ferguson (MCI).

   The work of Yakov Rekhter was supported in part by the National
   Science Foundation under Grant Number NCR-9219216.

