6.8 Connection collision detection.

   If a pair of BGP speakers try simultaneously to establish a TCP
   connection to each other, then two parallel connections between this
   pair of speakers might well be formed.  We refer to this situation as
   connection collision.  Clearly, one of these connections must be
   closed.

   Based on the value of the BGP Identifier a convention is established
   for detecting which BGP connection is to be preserved when a
   collision does occur. The convention is to compare the BGP
   Identifiers of the peers involved in the collision and to retain only
   the connection initiated by the BGP speaker with the higher-valued
   BGP Identifier.

   Upon receipt of an OPEN message, the local system must examine all of
   its connections that are in the OpenConfirm state.  A BGP speaker may
   also examine connections in an OpenSent state if it knows the BGP
   Identifier of the peer by means outside of the protocol.  If among
   these connections there is a connection to a remote BGP speaker whose
   BGP Identifier equals the one in the OPEN message, then the local
   system performs the following collision resolution procedure:

      1. The BGP Identifier of the local system is compared to the BGP
      Identifier of the remote system (as specified in the OPEN
      message).

      2. If the value of the local BGP Identifier is less than the
      remote one, the local system closes BGP connection that already
      exists (the one that is already in the OpenConfirm state), and
      accepts BGP connection initiated by the remote system.

      3. Otherwise, the local system closes newly created BGP connection
      (the one associated with the newly received OPEN message), and
      continues to use the existing one (the one that is already in the
      OpenConfirm state).

      Comparing BGP Identifiers is done by treating them as (4-octet
      long) unsigned integers.




Rekhter & Li                                                   [Page 28]

RFC 1771                         BGP-4                        March 1995


      A connection collision with an existing BGP connection that is in
      Established states causes unconditional closing of the newly
      created connection. Note that a connection collision cannot be
      detected with connections that are in Idle, or Connect, or Active
      states.

      Closing the BGP connection (that results from the collision
      resolution procedure) is accomplished by sending the NOTIFICATION
      message with the Error Code Cease.

