9.1.3   Phase 3: Route Dissemination

   The Phase 3 decision function shall be invoked on completion of Phase
   2, or when any of the following events occur:

      a) when routes in a Loc-RIB to local destinations have changed

      b) when locally generated routes learned by means outside of BGP
      have changed

      c) when a new BGP speaker - BGP speaker connection has been
      established

   The Phase 3 function is a separate process which completes when it
   has no further work to do. The Phase 3 Routing Decision function
   shall be blocked from running while the Phase 2 decision function is
   in process.

   All routes in the Loc-RIB shall be processed into a corresponding
   entry in the associated Adj-RIBs-Out. Route aggregation and
   information reduction techniques (see 9.2.4.1) may optionally be
   applied.

   For the benefit of future support of inter-AS multicast capabilities,
   a BGP speaker that participates in inter-AS multicast routing shall
   advertise a route it receives from one of its external peers and if



Rekhter & Li                                                   [Page 38]

RFC 1771                         BGP-4                        March 1995


   it installs it in its Loc-RIB, it shall advertise it back to the peer
   from which the route was received. For a BGP speaker that does not
   participate in inter-AS multicast routing such an advertisement is
   optional. When doing such an advertisement, the NEXT_HOP attribute
   should be set to the address of the peer. An implementation may also
   optimize such an advertisement by truncating information in the
   AS_PATH attribute to include only its own AS number and that of the
   peer that advertised the route (such truncation requires the ORIGIN
   attribute to be set to INCOMPLETE).  In addition an implementation is
   not required to pass optional or discretionary path attributes with
   such an advertisement.

   When the updating of the Adj-RIBs-Out and the Forwarding Information
   Base (FIB) is complete, the local BGP speaker shall run the external
   update process of 9.2.2.

