6.1 Multiple Networks Per Message

   The BGP protocol allows for multiple address prefixes with the same
   AS path and next-hop gateway to be specified in one message. Making
   use of this capability is highly recommended. With one address prefix
   per message there is a substantial increase in overhead in the
   receiver. Not only does the system overhead increase due to the
   reception of multiple messages, but the overhead of scanning the
   routing table for updates to BGP peers and other routing protocols
   (and sending the associated messages) is incurred multiple times as
   well. One method of building messages containing many address
   prefixes per AS path and gateway from a routing table that is not
   organized per AS path is to build many messages as the routing table
   is scanned. As each address prefix is processed, a message for the
   associated AS path and gateway is allocated, if it does not exist,
   and the new address prefix is added to it.  If such a message exists,
   the new address prefix is just appended to it. If the message lacks
   the space to hold the new address prefix, it is transmitted, a new
   message is allocated, and the new address prefix is inserted into the
   new message. When the entire routing table has been scanned, all



Rekhter & Li                                                   [Page 53]

RFC 1771                         BGP-4                        March 1995


   allocated messages are sent and their resources released.  Maximum
   compression is achieved when all  the destinations covered by the
   address prefixes share a gateway and common path attributes, making
   it possible to send many address prefixes in one 4096-byte message.

   When peering with a BGP implementation that does not compress
   multiple address prefixes into one message, it may be necessary to
   take steps to reduce the overhead from the flood of data received
   when a peer is acquired or a significant network topology change
   occurs. One method of doing this is to limit the rate of updates.
   This will eliminate the redundant scanning of the routing table to
   provide flash updates for BGP peers and other routing protocols. A
   disadvantage of this approach is that it increases the propagation
   latency of routing information.  By choosing a minimum flash update
   interval that is not much greater than the time it takes to process
   the multiple messages this latency should be minimized. A better
   method would be to read all received messages before sending updates.

