5.  Path Attributes

   This section discusses the path attributes of the UPDATE message.

   Path attributes fall into four separate categories:

               1. Well-known mandatory.
               2. Well-known discretionary.
               3. Optional transitive.
               4. Optional non-transitive.

   Well-known attributes must be recognized by all BGP implementations.
   Some of these attributes are mandatory and must be included in every
   UPDATE message.  Others are discretionary and may or may not be sent
   in a particular UPDATE message.

   All well-known attributes must be passed along (after proper
   updating, if necessary) to other BGP peers.

   In addition to well-known attributes, each path may contain one or
   more optional attributes.  It is not required or expected that all
   BGP implementations support all optional attributes.  The handling of
   an unrecognized optional attribute is determined by the setting of
   the Transitive bit in the attribute flags octet.  Paths with
   unrecognized transitive optional attributes should be accepted. If a
   path with unrecognized transitive optional attribute is accepted and
   passed along to other BGP peers, then the unrecognized transitive
   optional attribute of that path must be passed along with the path to
   other BGP peers with the Partial bit in the Attribute Flags octet set
   to 1. If a path with recognized transitive optional attribute is
   accepted and passed along to other BGP peers and the Partial bit in
   the Attribute Flags octet is set to 1 by some previous AS, it is not
   set back to 0 by the current AS. Unrecognized non-transitive optional
   attributes must be quietly ignored and not passed along to other BGP
   peers.

   New transitive optional attributes may be attached to the path by the
   originator or by any other AS in the path.  If they are not attached
   by the originator, the Partial bit in the Attribute Flags octet is
   set to 1.  The rules for attaching new non-transitive optional
   attributes will depend on the nature of the specific attribute.  The
   documentation of each new non-transitive optional attribute will be
   expected to include such rules.  (The description of the
   MULTI_EXIT_DISC attribute gives an example.)  All optional attributes
   (both transitive and non-transitive) may be updated (if appropriate)
   by ASs in the path.





Rekhter & Li                                                   [Page 20]

RFC 1771                         BGP-4                        March 1995


   The sender of an UPDATE message should order path attributes within
   the UPDATE message in ascending order of attribute type.  The
   receiver of an UPDATE message must be prepared to handle path
   attributes within the UPDATE message that are out of order.

   The same attribute cannot appear more than once within the Path
   Attributes field of a particular UPDATE message.

