6.3 UPDATE message error handling.

   All errors detected while processing the UPDATE message are indicated
   by sending the NOTIFICATION message with Error Code UPDATE Message
   Error.  The error subcode elaborates on the specific nature of the
   error.

   Error checking of an UPDATE message begins by examining the path
   attributes.  If the Unfeasible Routes Length or Total Attribute
   Length is too large (i.e., if Unfeasible Routes Length + Total
   Attribute Length + 23 exceeds the message Length), then the Error
   Subcode is set to Malformed Attribute List.

   If any recognized attribute has Attribute Flags that conflict with
   the Attribute Type Code, then the Error Subcode is set to Attribute
   Flags Error.  The Data field contains the erroneous attribute (type,
   length and value).

   If any recognized attribute has Attribute Length that conflicts with
   the expected length (based on the attribute type code), then the
   Error Subcode is set to Attribute Length Error.  The Data field
   contains the erroneous attribute (type, length and value).

   If any of the mandatory well-known attributes are not present, then
   the Error Subcode is set to Missing Well-known Attribute.  The Data
   field contains the Attribute Type Code of the missing well-known
   attribute.

   If any of the mandatory well-known attributes are not recognized,
   then the Error Subcode is set to Unrecognized Well-known Attribute.
   The Data field contains the unrecognized attribute (type, length and
   value).

   If the ORIGIN attribute has an undefined value, then the Error
   Subcode is set to Invalid Origin Attribute.  The Data field contains
   the unrecognized attribute (type, length and value).

   If the NEXT_HOP attribute field is syntactically incorrect, then the
   Error Subcode is set to Invalid NEXT_HOP Attribute.  The Data field
   contains the incorrect attribute (type, length and value).  Syntactic
   correctness means that the NEXT_HOP attribute represents a valid IP
   host address.  Semantic correctness applies only to the external BGP



Rekhter & Li                                                   [Page 26]

RFC 1771                         BGP-4                        March 1995


   links. It means that the interface associated with the IP address, as
   specified in the NEXT_HOP attribute, shares a common subnet with the
   receiving BGP speaker and is not the IP address of the receiving BGP
   speaker.  If the NEXT_HOP attribute is semantically incorrect, the
   error should be logged, and the the route should be ignored.  In this
   case, no NOTIFICATION message should be sent.

   The AS_PATH attribute is checked for syntactic correctness.  If the
   path is syntactically incorrect, then the Error Subcode is set to
   Malformed AS_PATH.

   If an optional attribute is recognized, then the value of this
   attribute is checked.  If an error is detected, the attribute is
   discarded, and the Error Subcode is set to Optional Attribute Error.
   The Data field contains the attribute (type, length and value).

   If any attribute appears more than once in the UPDATE message, then
   the Error Subcode is set to Malformed Attribute List.

   The NLRI field in the UPDATE message is checked for syntactic
   validity.  If the field is syntactically incorrect, then the Error
   Subcode is set to Invalid Network Field.

