9.1 Decision Process

   The Decision Process selects routes for subsequent advertisement by
   applying the policies in the local Policy Information Base (PIB) to
   the routes stored in its Adj-RIB-In. The output of the Decision
   Process is the set of routes that will be advertised to all peers;
   the selected routes will be stored in the local speaker's Adj-RIB-
   Out.

   The selection process is formalized by defining a function that takes
   the attribute of a given route as an argument and returns a non-
   negative integer denoting the degree of preference for the route.
   The function that calculates the degree of preference for a given
   route shall not use as its inputs any of the following:  the
   existence of other routes, the non-existence of other routes, or the
   path attributes of other routes. Route selection then consists of
   individual application of the degree of preference function to each
   feasible route, followed by the choice of the one with the highest
   degree of preference.

   The Decision Process operates on routes contained in each Adj-RIB-In,
   and is responsible for:

      - selection of routes to be advertised to BGP speakers located in
      the local speaker's autonomous system

      - selection of routes to be advertised to BGP speakers located in
      neighboring autonomous systems

      - route aggregation and route information reduction

   The Decision Process takes place in three distinct phases, each
   triggered by a different event:

      a) Phase 1 is responsible for calculating the degree of preference
      for each route received from a BGP speaker located in a
      neighboring autonomous system, and for advertising to the other
      BGP speakers in the local autonomous system the routes that have
      the highest degree of preference for each distinct destination.




Rekhter & Li                                                   [Page 35]

RFC 1771                         BGP-4                        March 1995


      b) Phase 2 is invoked on completion of phase 1. It is responsible
      for choosing the best route out of all those available for each
      distinct destination, and for installing each chosen route into
      the appropriate Loc-RIB.

      c) Phase 3 is invoked after the Loc-RIB has been modified. It is
      responsible for disseminating routes in the Loc-RIB to each peer
      located in a neighboring autonomous system, according to the
      policies contained in the PIB. Route aggregation and information
      reduction can optionally be performed within this phase.

