9.1.2 Phase 2: Route Selection

   The Phase 2 decision function shall be invoked on completion of Phase
   1.  The Phase 2 function is a separate process which completes when
   it has no further work to do. The Phase 2 process shall consider all
   routes that are present in the Adj-RIBs-In, including those received
   from BGP speakers located in its own autonomous system and those
   received from BGP speakers located in neighboring autonomous systems.





Rekhter & Li                                                   [Page 36]

RFC 1771                         BGP-4                        March 1995


   The Phase 2 decision function shall be blocked from running while the
   Phase 3 decision function is in process. The Phase 2 function shall
   lock all Adj-RIBs-In prior to commencing its function, and shall
   unlock them on completion.

   If the NEXT_HOP attribute of a BGP route depicts an address to which
   the local BGP speaker doesn't have a route in its Loc-RIB, the BGP
   route SHOULD be excluded from the Phase 2 decision function.

   For each set of destinations for which a feasible route exists in the
   Adj-RIBs-In, the local BGP speaker shall identify the route that has:

      a) the highest degree of preference of any route to the same set
      of destinations, or

      b) is the only route to that destination, or

      c) is selected as a result of the Phase 2 tie breaking rules
      specified in 9.1.2.1.

   The local speaker SHALL then install that route in the Loc-RIB,
   replacing any route to the same destination that is currently being
   held in the Loc-RIB. The local speaker MUST determine the immediate
   next hop to the address depicted by the NEXT_HOP attribute of the
   selected route by performing a lookup in the IGP and selecting one of
   the possible paths in the IGP.  This immediate next hop MUST be used
   when installing the selected route in the Loc-RIB.  If the route to
   the address depicted by the NEXT_HOP attribute changes such that the
   immediate next hop changes, route selection should be recalculated as
   specified above.

   Unfeasible routes shall be removed from the Loc-RIB, and
   corresponding unfeasible routes shall then be removed from the Adj-
   RIBs-In.

