9.1.4 Overlapping Routes

   A BGP speaker may transmit routes with overlapping Network Layer
   Reachability Information (NLRI) to another BGP speaker. NLRI overlap
   occurs when a set of destinations are identified in non-matching
   multiple routes. Since BGP encodes NLRI using IP prefixes, overlap
   will always exhibit subset relationships.  A route describing a
   smaller set of destinations (a longer prefix) is said to be more
   specific than a route describing a larger set of destinations (a
   shorted prefix); similarly, a route describing a larger set of
   destinations (a shorter prefix) is said to be less specific than a
   route describing a smaller set of destinations (a longer prefix).

   The precedence relationship effectively decomposes less specific
   routes into two parts:

      -  a set of destinations described only by the less specific
      route, and

      -  a set of destinations described by the overlap of the less
      specific and the more specific routes

   When overlapping routes are present in the same Adj-RIB-In, the more
   specific route shall take precedence, in order from more specific to
   least specific.

   The set of destinations described by the overlap represents a portion
   of the less specific route that is feasible, but is not currently in
   use.  If a more specific route is later withdrawn, the set of
   destinations described by the overlap will still be reachable using
   the less specific route.




Rekhter & Li                                                   [Page 39]

RFC 1771                         BGP-4                        March 1995


   If a BGP speaker receives overlapping routes, the Decision Process
   shall take into account the semantics of the overlapping routes. In
   particular, if a BGP speaker accepts the less specific route while
   rejecting the more specific route from the same peer, then the
   destinations represented by the overlap may not forward along the ASs
   listed in the AS_PATH attribute of that route. Therefore, a BGP
   speaker has the following choices:

      a)   Install both the less and the more specific routes

      b)   Install the more specific route only

      c)   Install the non-overlapping part of the less specific
                 route only (that implies de-aggregation)

      d)   Aggregate the two routes and install the aggregated route

      e)   Install the less specific route only

      f)   Install neither route

   If a BGP speaker chooses e), then it should add ATOMIC_AGGREGATE
   attribute to the route. A route that carries ATOMIC_AGGREGATE
   attribute can not be de-aggregated. That is, the NLRI of this route
   can not be made more specific.  Forwarding along such a route does
   not guarantee that IP packets will actually traverse only ASs listed
   in the AS_PATH attribute of the route.  If a BGP speaker chooses a),
   it must not advertise the more general route without the more
   specific route.

