ADDRESS OPTIONS
       Address options can be applied to address specifications to influence the process of opening the addresses and the properties of the resulting data channels.

       For technical reasons not every option can be applied to every address type; e.g., applying a socket option to a regular file will fail. To catch  most  useless  combinations  as
       early  as  in the open phase, the concept of option groups was introduced. Each option belongs to one or more option groups. Options can be used only with address types that sup-
       port at least one of their option groups (but see option -g).

       Address options have data types that their values must conform to.  Every address option consists of just a keyword or a keyword followed by "=value", where value must conform to
       the  options  type.   Some  address  options  manipulate parameters of system calls; e.g., option sync sets the O_SYNC flag with the open() call.  Other options cause a system or
       library call; e.g., with option `ttl=value' the setsockopt(fd, SOL_IP, IP_TTL, value, sizeof(int)) call is applied.  Other options set internal socat variables that are used dur-
       ing  data  transfer;  e.g.,  `crnl' causes explicit character conversions.  A few options have more complex implementations; e.g., su-d (substuser-delayed) inquires some user and
       group infos, stores them, and applies them later after a possible chroot() call.

       If multiple options are given to an address, their sequence in the address specification has (almost) no effect on the sequence of their execution/application. Instead, socat has
       built  in  an option phase model that tries to bring the options in a useful order. Some options exist in different forms (e.g., unlink, unlink-early, unlink-late) to control the
       time of their execution.

       If the same option is specified more than once within one address specification, with equal or different values, the effect depends on the kind of option.  Options  resulting  in
       function  calls like setsockopt() cause multiple invocations. With options that set parameters for a required call like open() or set internal flags, the value of the last option
       occurrence is effective.

       The existence or semantics of many options are system dependent. Socat usually does NOT try to emulate missing libc or kernel features, it  just  provides  an  interface  to  the
       underlying system. So, if an operating system lacks a feature, the related option is simply not available on this platform.

       The  following  paragraphs  introduce  just the more common address options. For a more comprehensive reference and to find information about canonical option names, alias names,
       option phases, and platforms see file xio.help.

