       OPENSSL option group

       These options apply to the openssl and openssl-listen address types.

       cipher=<cipherlist>
              Selects  the list of ciphers that may be used for the connection.  See the man page of ciphers , section CIPHER LIST FORMAT, for detailed information about syntax, values,
              and default of <cipherlist>.
              Several cipher strings may be given, separated by ':'.  Some simple cipher strings:

       3DES   Uses a cipher suite with triple DES.

       MD5    Uses a cipher suite with MD5.

       aNULL  Uses a cipher suite without authentication.

       NULL   Does not use encryption.

       HIGH   Uses a cipher suite with "high" encryption.  Note that the peer must support the selected property, or the negotiation will fail.

       method=<ssl-method>
              This option is based on deprecated functions and is only available when socat was build with option --with-openssl-method.  Sets the protocol version  to  be  used.  Valid
              strings (not case sensitive) are:

       SSL2   Select SSL protocol version 2.

       SSL3   Select SSL protocol version 3.

       SSL23  Select the best available SSL or TLS protocol.

       TLS1   Select TLS protocol version 1.

       TLS1.1 Select TLS protocol version 1.1.

       TLS1.2 Select TLS protocol version 1.2.  When this option is not provided OpenSSL negotiates the mothod with its peer.

       verify=<bool>
              Controls check of the peer's certificate. Default is 1 (true). Disabling verify might open your socket for everyone, making the encryption useless!

       cert=<filename>
              Specifies the file with the certificate and private key for authentication.  The certificate must be in OpenSSL format (*.pem).  With openssl-listen, use of this option is
              strongly recommended. Except with cipher aNULL, "no shared ciphers" error will occur when no certificate is given.

       key=<filename>
              Specifies the file with the private key. The private key may be in this file or in the file given with the cert option. The party that has to proof that it is the owner of
              a certificate needs the private key.

       dhparams=<filename>
              Specifies the file with the Diffie Hellman parameters. These parameters may also be in the file given with the cert option in which case the dhparams option is not needed.

       cafile=<filename>
              Specifies  the  file  with the trusted (root) authority certificates. The file must be in PEM format and should contain one or more certificates. The party that checks the
              authentication of its peer trusts only certificates that are in this file.

       capath=<dirname>
              Specifies the directory with the trusted (root) certificates. The directory must contain certificates in PEM format and their hashes (see OpenSSL documentation)

       egd=<filename>
              On some systems, openssl requires an explicit source of random data. Specify the socket name where an  entropy  gathering  daemon  like  egd  provides  random  data,  e.g.
              /dev/egd-pool.

       pseudo On  systems  where  openssl  cannot  find  an  entropy source and where no entropy gathering daemon can be utilized, this option activates a mechanism for providing pseudo
              entropy. This is achieved by taking the current time in microseconds for feeding the libc pseudo random number generator with an initial value. openssl is then feeded with
              output from random() calls.
              NOTE:This mechanism is not sufficient for generation of secure keys!

       compress
              Enable  or  disable the use of compression for a connection. Setting this to "none" disables compression, setting it to "auto" lets OpenSSL choose the best available algo-
              rithm supported by both parties. The default is to not touch any compression-related settings.  NOTE: Requires OpenSSL 0.9.8  or  higher  and  disabling  compression  with
              OpenSSL 0.9.8 affects all new connections in the process.

       commonname=<string>
              Specify  the commonname that the peer certificate must match. With OPENSSL-CONNECT address this overrides the given hostname or IP target address; with OPENSSL-LISTEN this
              turns on check of peer certificates commonname. This option has only meaning when option verify is not disabled and the chosen cipher provides a peer certificate.

       fips   Enables FIPS mode if compiled in. For info about the FIPS encryption implementation standard see http://oss-institute.org/fips-faq.html.  This mode might require that  the
              involved  certificates  are  generated  with  a FIPS enabled version of openssl. Setting or clearing this option on one socat address affects all OpenSSL addresses of this
              process.

