       FORK option group

       EXEC  or  SYSTEM addresses invoke a program using a child process and transfer data between socat and the program. The interprocess communication mechanism can be influenced with
       the following options. Per default, a socketpair() is created and assigned to stdin and stdout of the child process, while stderr is inherited from the  socat  process,  and  the
       child process uses file descriptors 0 and 1 for communicating with the main socat process.

       nofork Does  not  fork  a  subprocess  for  executing the program, instead calls execvp() or system() directly from the actual socat instance. This avoids the overhead of another
              process between the program and its peer, but introduces a lot of restrictions:

       o      this option can only be applied to the second socat address.

       o      it cannot be applied to a part of a dual address.

       o      the first socat address cannot be OPENSSL or READLINE

       o      socat options -b, -t, -D, -l, -v, -x become useless

       o      for both addresses, options ignoreeof, cr, and crnl become useless

       o      for the second address (the one with option nofork), options append,  cloexec, flock, user, group, mode, nonblock, perm-late, setlk, and setpgid cannot be applied. Some of
              these could be used on the first address though.

       pipes  Creates a pair of unnamed pipes for interprocess communication instead of a socket pair.

       openpty
              Establishes communication with the sub process using a pseudo terminal created with openpty() instead of the default (socketpair or ptmx).

       ptmx   Establishes communication with the sub process using a pseudo terminal created by opening /dev/ptmx or /dev/ptc instead of the default (socketpair).

       pty    Establishes  communication with the sub process using a pseudo terminal instead of a socket pair. Creates the pty with an available mechanism. If openpty and ptmx are both
              available, it uses ptmx because this is POSIX compliant (example).

       ctty   Makes the pty the controlling tty of the sub process (example).

       stderr Directs stderr of the sub process to its output channel by making stderr a dup() of stdout (example).

       fdin=<fdnum>
              Assigns the sub processes input channel to its file descriptor <fdnum> instead of stdin (0). The program started from the subprocess has to use this fd  for  reading  data
              from socat (example).

       fdout=<fdnum>
              Assigns  the sub processes output channel to its file descriptor <fdnum> instead of stdout (1). The program started from the subprocess has to use this fd for writing data
              to socat (example).

       sighup, sigint, sigquit
              Has socat pass signals of this type to the sub process.  If no address has this option, socat terminates on these signals.

