7.4 STATIC ROUTING

   Static routing provides a means of explicitly defining the next hop
   from a router for a particular destination.  A router SHOULD provide
   a means for defining a static route to a destination, where the
   destination is defined by a network prefix.  The mechanism SHOULD
   also allow for a metric to be specified for each static route.

   A router that supports a dynamic routing protocol MUST allow static
   routes to be defined with any metric valid for the routing protocol
   used.  The router MUST provide the ability for the user to specify a
   list of static routes that may or may not be propagated through the
   routing protocol.  In addition, a router SHOULD support the following
   additional information if it supports a routing protocol that could
   make use of the information.  They are:

   o TOS,

   o Subnet Mask, or

   o Prefix Length, or

   o A metric specific to a given routing protocol that can import the
      route.

   DISCUSSION
      We intend that one needs to support only the things useful to the
      given routing protocol.  The need for TOS should not require the
      vendor to implement the other parts if they are not used.

      Whether a router prefers a static route over a dynamic route (or
      vice versa) or whether the associated metrics are used to choose
      between conflicting static and dynamic routes SHOULD be
      configurable for each static route.

      A router MUST allow a metric to be assigned to a static route for
      each routing domain that it supports.  Each such metric MUST be
      explicitly assigned to a specific routing domain.  For example:

           route 10.0.0.0/8 via 192.0.2.3 rip metric 3

           route 10.21.0.0/16 via 192.0.2.4 ospf inter-area metric 27

           route 10.22.0.0/16 via 192.0.2.5 egp 123 metric 99



Baker                       Standards Track                   [Page 111]

RFC 1812         Requirements for IP Version 4 Routers         June 1995


   DISCUSSION
      It has been suggested that, ideally, static routes should have
      preference values rather than metrics (since metrics can only be
      compared with metrics of other routes in the same routing domain,
      the metric of a static route could only be compared with metrics
      of other static routes).  This is contrary to some current
      implementations, where static routes really do have metrics, and
      those metrics are used to determine whether a particular dynamic
      route overrides the static route to the same destination.  Thus,
      this document uses the term metric rather than preference.

      This technique essentially makes the static route into a RIP
      route, or an OSPF route (or whatever, depending on the domain of
      the metric).  Thus, the route lookup algorithm of that domain
      applies.  However, this is NOT route leaking, in that coercing a
      static route into a dynamic routing domain does not authorize the
      router to redistribute the route into the dynamic routing domain.

      For static routes not put into a specific routing domain, the
      route lookup algorithm is:

      (1) Basic match

      (2) Longest match

      (3) Weak TOS (if TOS supported)

      (4) Best metric (where metric are implementation-defined)

      The last step may not be necessary, but it's useful in the case
      where you want to have a primary static route over one interface
      and a secondary static route over an alternate interface, with
      failover to the alternate path if the interface for the primary
      route fails.

