8.1.1 SNMP Protocol Elements

   Routers MUST be manageable by SNMP [MGT:3].  The SNMP MUST operate
   using UDP/IP as its transport and network protocols.  Others MAY be
   supported (e.g., see [MGT:25, MGT:26, MGT:27, and MGT:28]).  SNMP



Baker                       Standards Track                   [Page 115]

RFC 1812         Requirements for IP Version 4 Routers         June 1995


   management operations MUST operate as if the SNMP was implemented on
   the router itself.  Specifically, management operations MUST be
   effected by sending SNMP management requests to any of the IP
   addresses assigned to any of the router's interfaces.  The actual
   management operation may be performed either by the router or by a
   proxy for the router.

   DISCUSSION
      This wording is intended to allow management either by proxy,
      where the proxy device responds to SNMP packets that have one of
      the router's IP addresses in the packets destination address
      field, or the SNMP is implemented directly in the router itself
      and receives packets and responds to them in the proper manner.

      It is important that management operations can be sent to one of
      the router's IP Addresses.  In diagnosing network problems the
      only thing identifying the router that is available may be one of
      the router's IP address; obtained perhaps by looking through
      another router's routing table.

   All SNMP operations (get, get-next, get-response, set, and trap) MUST
   be implemented.

   Routers MUST provide a mechanism for rate-limiting the generation of
   SNMP trap messages.  Routers MAY provide this mechanism through the
   algorithms for asynchronous alert management described in [MGT:5].

   DISCUSSION
      Although there is general agreement about the need to rate-limit
      traps, there is not yet consensus on how this is best achieved.
      The reference cited is considered experimental.

