8.2 Community Table

   For the purposes of this specification, we assume that there is an
   abstract `community table' in the router.  This table contains
   several entries, each entry for a specific community and containing
   the parameters necessary to completely define the attributes of that
   community.  The actual implementation method of the abstract
   community table is, of course, implementation specific.

   A router's community table MUST allow for at least one entry and
   SHOULD allow for at least two entries.

   DISCUSSION
      A community table with zero capacity is useless.  It means that
      the router will not recognize any communities and, therefore, all
      SNMP operations will be rejected.



Baker                       Standards Track                   [Page 116]

RFC 1812         Requirements for IP Version 4 Routers         June 1995


      Therefore, one entry is the minimal useful size of the table.
      Having two entries allows one entry to be limited to read-only
      access while the other would have write capabilities.

   Routers MUST allow the user to manually (i.e., without using SNMP)
   examine, add, delete and change entries in the SNMP community table.
   The user MUST be able to set the community name or construct a MIB
   view.  The user MUST be able to configure communities as read-only
   (i.e., they do not allow SETs) or read-write (i.e., they do allow
   SETs).

   The user MUST be able to define at least one IP address to which
   notifications are sent for each community or MIB view, if traps are
   used.  These addresses SHOULD be definable on a community or MIB view
   basis.  It SHOULD be possible to enable or disable notifications on a
   community or MIB view basis.

   A router SHOULD provide the ability to specify a list of valid
   network managers for any particular community.  If enabled, a router
   MUST validate the source address of the SNMP datagram against the
   list and MUST discard the datagram if its address does not appear.
   If the datagram is discarded the router MUST take all actions
   appropriate to an SNMP authentication failure.

   DISCUSSION
      This is a rather limited authentication system, but coupled with
      various forms of packet filtering may provide some small measure
      of increased security.

   The community table MUST be saved in non-volatile storage.

   The initial state of the community table SHOULD contain one entry,
   with the community name string public and read-only access.  The
   default state of this entry MUST NOT send traps.  If it is
   implemented, then this entry MUST remain in the community table until
   the administrator changes it or deletes it.

   DISCUSSION
      By default, traps are not sent to this community.  Trap PDUs are
      sent to unicast IP addresses.  This address must be configured
      into the router in some manner.  Before the configuration occurs,
      there is no such address, so to whom should the trap be sent?
      Therefore trap sending to the public community defaults to be
      disabled.  This can, of course, be changed by an administrative
      operation once the router is operational.






Baker                       Standards Track                   [Page 117]

RFC 1812         Requirements for IP Version 4 Routers         June 1995


