8.4 Vendor Specific MIBS

   The Internet Standard and Experimental MIBs do not cover the entire
   range of statistical, state, configuration and control information
   that may be available in a network element.  This information is,
   nevertheless, extremely useful.  Vendors of routers (and other
   network devices) generally have developed MIB extensions that cover
   this information.  These MIB extensions are called Vendor Specific
   MIBs.

   The Vendor Specific MIB for the router MUST provide access to all
   statistical, state, configuration, and control information that is
   not available through the Standard and Experimental MIBs that have
   been implemented.  This information MUST be available for both
   monitoring and control operations.

   DISCUSSION
      The intent of this requirement is to provide the ability to do
      anything on the router through SNMP that can be done through a
      console, and vice versa.  A certain minimal amount of
      configuration is necessary before SNMP can operate (e.g., the
      router must have an IP address).  This initial configuration can
      not be done through SNMP.  However, once the initial configuration
      is done, full capabilities ought to be available through network
      management.

   The vendor SHOULD make available the specifications for all Vendor
   Specific MIB variables.  These specifications MUST conform to the SMI
   [MGT:1] and the descriptions MUST be in the form specified in
   [MGT:4].

   DISCUSSION
      Making the Vendor Specific MIB available to the user is necessary.
      Without this information the users would not be able to configure
      their network management systems to be able to access the Vendor
      Specific parameters.  These parameters would then be useless.



Baker                       Standards Track                   [Page 119]

RFC 1812         Requirements for IP Version 4 Routers         June 1995


      ne 2 The format of the MIB specification is also specified.
      Parsers that read MIB specifications and generate the needed
      tables for the network management station are available.  These
      parsers generally understand only the standard MIB specification
      format.

