9.1.2 BOOTP Relay Agents

   In many cases, BOOTP clients and their associated BOOTP server(s) do
   not reside on the same IP (sub)network.  In such cases, a third-party
   agent is required to transfer BOOTP messages between clients and
   servers.  Such an agent was originally referred to as a BOOTP
   forwarding agent.  However, to avoid confusion with the IP forwarding
   function of a router, the name BOOTP relay agent has been adopted
   instead.

   DISCUSSION
      A BOOTP relay agent performs a task that is distinct from a
      router's normal IP forwarding function.  While a router normally
      switches IP datagrams between networks more-or-less transparently,
      a BOOTP relay agent may more properly be thought to receive BOOTP
      messages as a final destination and then generate new BOOTP
      messages as a result.  One should resist the notion of simply
      forwarding a BOOTP message straight through like a regular packet.

   This relay-agent functionality is most conveniently located in the
   routers that interconnect the clients and servers (although it may
   alternatively be located in a host that is directly connected to the
   client (sub)net).

   A router MAY provide BOOTP relay-agent capability.  If it does, it
   MUST conform to the specifications in [APPL:3].

   Section [5.2.3] discussed the circumstances under which a packet is
   delivered locally (to the router).  All locally delivered UDP
   messages whose UDP destination port number is BOOTPS (67) are
   considered for special processing by the router's logical BOOTP relay
   agent.

   Sections [4.2.2.11] and [5.3.7] discussed invalid IP source
   addresses.  According to these rules, a router must not forward any
   received datagram whose IP source address is 0.0.0.0.  However,
   routers that support a BOOTP relay agent MUST accept for local
   delivery to the relay agent BOOTREQUEST messages whose IP source
   address is 0.0.0.0.




Baker                       Standards Track                   [Page 121]

RFC 1812         Requirements for IP Version 4 Routers         June 1995


