10.1 Introduction

   The following kinds of activities are included under router O&M:

   o Diagnosing hardware problems in the router's processor, in its
      network interfaces, or in its connected networks, modems, or
      communication lines.

   o Installing new hardware

   o Installing new software.

   o Restarting or rebooting the router after a crash.

   o Configuring (or reconfiguring) the router.

   o Detecting and diagnosing Internet problems such as congestion,
      routing loops, bad IP addresses, black holes, packet avalanches,
      and misbehaved hosts.

   o Changing network topology, either temporarily (e.g., to bypass a
      communication line problem) or permanently.

   o Monitoring the status and performance of the routers and the
      connected networks.

   o Collecting traffic statistics for use in (Inter-)network planning.

   o Coordinating the above activities with appropriate vendors and
      telecommunications specialists.

   Routers and their connected communication lines are often operated as
   a system by a centralized O&M organization.  This organization may
   maintain a (Inter-)network operation center, or NOC, to carry out its



Baker                       Standards Track                   [Page 122]

RFC 1812         Requirements for IP Version 4 Routers         June 1995


   O&M functions.  It is essential that routers support remote control
   and monitoring from such a NOC through an Internet path, since
   routers might not be connected to the same network as their NOC.
   Since a network failure may temporarily preclude network access, many
   NOCs insist that routers be accessible for network management through
   an alternative means, often dial-up modems attached to console ports
   on the routers.

   Since an IP packet traversing an internet will often use routers
   under the control of more than one NOC, Internet problem diagnosis
   will often involve cooperation of personnel of more than one NOC.  In
   some cases, the same router may need to be monitored by more than one
   NOC, but only if necessary, because excessive monitoring could impact
   a router's performance.

   The tools available for monitoring at a NOC may cover a wide range of
   sophistication.  Current implementations include multi-window,
   dynamic displays of the entire router system.  The use of AI
   techniques for automatic problem diagnosis is proposed for the
   future.

   Router O&M facilities discussed here are only a part of the large and
   difficult problem of Internet management.  These problems encompass
   not only multiple management organizations, but also multiple
   protocol layers.  For example, at the current stage of evolution of
   the Internet architecture, there is a strong coupling between host
   TCP implementations and eventual IP-level congestion in the router
   system [OPER:1].  Therefore, diagnosis of congestion problems will
   sometimes require the monitoring of TCP statistics in hosts.  There
   are currently a number of R&D efforts in progress in the area of
   Internet management and more specifically router O&M.  These R&D
   efforts have already produced standards for router O&M.  This is also
   an area in which vendor creativity can make a significant
   contribution.

