10.3.1 Introduction

   There is a range of possible models for performing O&M functions on a
   router.  At one extreme is the local-only model, under which the O&M
   functions can only be executed locally (e.g., from a terminal plugged
   into the router machine).  At the other extreme, the fully remote
   model allows only an absolute minimum of functions to be performed
   locally (e.g., forcing a boot), with most O&M being done remotely
   from the NOC.  There are intermediate models, such as one in which
   NOC personnel can log into the router as a host, using the Telnet
   protocol, to perform functions that can also be invoked locally.  The
   local-only model may be adequate in a few router installations, but
   remote operation from a NOC is normally required, and therefore
   remote O&M provisions are required for most routers.

   Remote O&M functions may be exercised through a control agent
   (program).  In the direct approach, the router would support remote
   O&M functions directly from the NOC using standard Internet protocols
   (e.g., SNMP, UDP or TCP); in the indirect approach, the control agent
   would support these protocols and control the router itself using
   proprietary protocols.  The direct approach is preferred, although
   either approach is acceptable.  The use of specialized host hardware
   and/or software requiring significant additional investment is
   discouraged; nevertheless, some vendors may elect to provide the
   control agent as an integrated part of the network in which the
   routers are a part.  If this is the case, it is required that a means
   be available to operate the control agent from a remote site using
   Internet protocols and paths and with equivalent functionality with
   respect to a local agent terminal.

   It is desirable that a control agent and any other NOC software tools
   that a vendor provides operate as user programs in a standard
   operating system.  The use of the standard Internet protocols UDP and
   TCP for communicating with the routers should facilitate this.

   Remote router monitoring and (especially) remote router control
   present important access control problems that must be addressed.
   Care must also be taken to ensure control of the use of router
   resources for these functions.  It is not desirable to let router
   monitoring take more than some limited fraction of the router CPU
   time, for example.  On the other hand, O&M functions must receive
   priority so they can be exercised when the router is congested, since
   often that is when O&M is most needed.






Baker                       Standards Track                   [Page 126]

RFC 1812         Requirements for IP Version 4 Routers         June 1995


