10.3.2.7 Control - Troubleshooting Problems

      (1) A router MUST provide in-band network access, but (except as
           required by Section [8.2]) for security considerations this
           access SHOULD be disabled by default.  Vendors MUST document
           the default state of any in-band access.  This access SHOULD
           implement access controls, to prevent unauthorized access.

   DISCUSSION
      In-band access primarily refers to access through the normal
      network protocols that may or may not affect the permanent
      operational state of the router.  This includes, but is not
      limited to Telnet/RLOGIN console access and SNMP operations.

      This was a point of contention between the operational out of the
      box and secure out of The box contingents.  Any automagic access
      to the router may introduce insecurities, but it may be more
      important for the customer to have a router that is accessible
      over the network as soon as it is plugged in.  At least one vendor
      supplies routers without any external console access and depends
      on being able to access the router through the network to complete
      its configuration.

      It is the vendors call whether in-band access is enabled by
      default; but it is also the vendor's responsibility to make its
      customers aware of possible insecurities.




Baker                       Standards Track                   [Page 130]

RFC 1812         Requirements for IP Version 4 Routers         June 1995


      (2) A router MUST provide the ability to initiate an ICMP echo.
           The following options SHOULD be implemented:

           o Choice of data patterns

           o Choice of packet size

           o Record route

           and the following additional options MAY be implemented:

           o Loose source route

           o Strict source route

           o Timestamps

      (3) A router SHOULD provide the ability to initiate a traceroute.
           If traceroute is provided, then the 3rd party traceroute
           SHOULD be implemented.

   Each of the above three facilities (if implemented) SHOULD have
   access restrictions placed on it to prevent its abuse by unauthorized
   persons.

