10.4.1 Auditing and Audit Trails

   Auditing and billing are the bane of the network operator, but are
   the two features most requested by those in charge of network
   security and those who are responsible for paying the bills.  In the
   context of security, auditing is desirable if it helps you keep your
   network working and protects your resources from abuse, without
   costing you more than those resources are worth.

   (1) Configuration Changes

        Router SHOULD provide a method for auditing a configuration
        change of a router, even if it's something as simple as
        recording the operator's initials and time of change.

   DISCUSSION
      Configuration change logging (who made a configuration change,
      what was changed, and when) is very useful, especially when
      traffic is suddenly routed through Alaska on its way across town.
      So is the ability to revert to a previous configuration.




Baker                       Standards Track                   [Page 131]

RFC 1812         Requirements for IP Version 4 Routers         June 1995


      (2) Packet Accounting

           Vendors should strongly consider providing a system for
           tracking traffic levels between pairs of hosts or networks.
           A mechanism for limiting the collection of this information
           to specific pairs of hosts or networks is also strongly
           encouraged.

   DISCUSSION
      A host traffic matrix as described above can give the network
      operator a glimpse of traffic trends not apparent from other
      statistics.  It can also identify hosts or networks that are
      probing the structure of the attached networks - e.g., a single
      external host that tries to send packets to every IP address in
      the network address range for a connected network.

      (3) Security Auditing

           Routers MUST provide a method for auditing security related
           failures or violations to include:

           o Authorization Failures: bad passwords, invalid SNMP
              communities, invalid authorization tokens,

           o Violations of Policy Controls: Prohibited Source Routes,
              Filtered Destinations, and

           o Authorization Approvals: good passwords - Telnet in-band
              access, console access.

           Routers MUST provide a method of limiting or disabling such
           auditing but auditing SHOULD be on by default.  Possible
           methods for auditing include listing violations to a console
           if present, logging or counting them internally, or logging
           them to a remote security server through the SNMP trap
           mechanism or the Unix logging mechanism as appropriate.  A
           router MUST implement at least one of these reporting
           mechanisms - it MAY implement more than one.

