10.4.2 Configuration Control

   A vendor has a responsibility to use good configuration control
   practices in the creation of the software/firmware loads for their
   routers.  In particular, if a vendor makes updates and loads
   available for retrieval over the Internet, the vendor should also
   provide a way for the customer to confirm the load is a valid one,
   perhaps by the verification of a checksum over the load.




Baker                       Standards Track                   [Page 132]

RFC 1812         Requirements for IP Version 4 Routers         June 1995


   DISCUSSION
      Many vendors currently provide short notice updates of their
      software products through the Internet.  This a good trend and
      should be encouraged, but provides a point of vulnerability in the
      configuration control process.

   If a vendor provides the ability for the customer to change the
   configuration parameters of a router remotely, for example through a
   Telnet session, the ability to do so SHOULD be configurable and
   SHOULD default to off.  The router SHOULD require  valid
   authentication before permitting remote reconfiguration.  This
   authentication procedure SHOULD NOT transmit the authentication
   secret over the network.  For example, if telnet is implemented, the
   vendor SHOULD IMPLEMENT Kerberos, S-Key, or a similar authentication
   procedure.

   DISCUSSION
      Allowing your properly identified network operator to twiddle with
      your routers is necessary; allowing anyone else to do so is
      foolhardy.

   A router MUST NOT have undocumented back door access and master
   passwords.  A vendor MUST ensure any such access added for purposes
   of debugging or product development are deleted before the product is
   distributed to its customers.

   DISCUSSION
      A vendor has a responsibility to its customers to ensure they are
      aware of the vulnerabilities present in its code by intention -
      e.g., in-band access.  Trap doors, back doors and master passwords
      intentional or unintentional can turn a relatively secure router
      into a major problem on an operational network.  The supposed
      operational benefits are not matched by the potential problems.

