E.1. Some Historical Perspective

   It is useful to briefly review the history of the topic, beginning
   with what is sometimes called the "classic model" of how a router
   makes routing decisions.  This model predates IP.  In this model, a
   router speaks some single routing protocol such as RIP.  The protocol
   completely determines the contents of the router's Forwarding
   Information Base (FIB).  The route lookup algorithm is trivial: the
   router looks in the FIB for a route whose destination attribute
   exactly matches the network prefix portion of the destination address
   in the packet.  If one is found, it is used; if none is found, the
   destination is unreachable.  Because the routing protocol keeps at
   most one route to each destination, the problem of what to do when
   there are multiple routes that match the same destination cannot
   arise.




Baker                       Standards Track                   [Page 155]

RFC 1812         Requirements for IP Version 4 Routers         June 1995


   Over the years, this classic model has been augmented in small ways.
   With the deployment of default routes, subnets, and host routes, it
   became possible to have more than one routing table entry which in
   some sense matched the destination.  This was easily resolved by a
   consensus that there was a hierarchy of routes: host routes should be
   preferred over subnet routes, subnet routes over net routes, and net
   routes over default routes.

   With the deployment of technologies supporting variable length subnet
   masks (variable length network prefixes), the general approach
   remained the same although its description became a little more
   complicated; network prefixes were introduced as a conscious
   simplification and regularization of the architecture.  We now say
   that each route to a network prefix route has a prefix length
   associated with it.  This prefix length indicates the number of bits
   in the prefix.  This may also be represented using the classical
   subnet mask.  A route cannot be used to route a packet unless each
   significant bit in the route's network prefix matches the
   corresponding bit in the packet's destination address.  Routes with
   more bits set in their masks are preferred over routes that have
   fewer bits set in their masks.  This is simply a generalization of
   the hierarchy of routes described above, and will be referred to for
   the rest of this memo as choosing a route by preferring longest
   match.

   Another way the classic model has been augmented is through a small
   amount of relaxation of the notion that a routing protocol has
   complete control over the contents of the routing table.  First,
   static routes were introduced.  For the first time, it was possible
   to simultaneously have two routes (one dynamic and one static) to the
   same destination.  When this happened, a router had to have a policy
   (in some cases configurable, and in other cases chosen by the author
   of the router's software) which determined whether the static route
   or the dynamic route was preferred.  However, this policy was only
   used as a tie-breaker when longest match didn't uniquely determine
   which route to use.  Thus, for example, a static default route would
   never be preferred over a dynamic net route even if the policy
   preferred static routes over dynamic routes.

   The classic model had to be further augmented when inter-domain
   routing protocols were invented.  Traditional routing protocols came
   to be called "interior gateway protocols" (IGPs), and at each
   Internet site there was a strange new beast called an "exterior
   gateway", a router that spoke EGP to several "BBN Core Gateways" (the
   routers that made up the Internet backbone at the time) at the same
   time as it spoke its IGP to the other routers at its site.  Both
   protocols wanted to determine the contents of the router's routing
   table.  Theoretically, this could result in a router having three



Baker                       Standards Track                   [Page 156]

RFC 1812         Requirements for IP Version 4 Routers         June 1995


   routes (EGP, IGP, and static) to the same destination.  Because of
   the Internet topology at the time, it was resolved with little debate
   that routers would be best served by a policy of preferring IGP
   routes over EGP routes.  However, the sanctity of longest match
   remained unquestioned: a default route learned from the IGP would
   never be preferred over a net route from learned EGP.

   Although the Internet topology, and consequently routing in the
   Internet, have evolved considerably since then, this slightly
   augmented version of the classic model has survived intact to this
   day in the Internet (except that BGP has replaced EGP).  Conceptually
   (and often in implementation) each router has a routing table and one
   or more routing protocol processes.  Each of these processes can add
   any entry that it pleases, and can delete or modify any entry that it
   has created.  When routing a packet, the router picks the best route
   using longest match, augmented with a policy mechanism to break ties.
   Although this augmented classic model has served us well, it has a
   number of shortcomings:

   o It ignores (although it could be augmented to consider) path
      characteristics such as quality of service and MTU.

   o It doesn't support routing protocols (such as OSPF and Integrated
      IS-IS) that require route lookup algorithms different than pure
      longest match.

   o There has not been a firm consensus on what the tie-breaking
      mechanism ought to be.  Tie-breaking mechanisms have often been
      found to be difficult if not impossible to configure in such a way
      that the router will always pick what the network manger considers
      to be the "correct" route.

