E.2. Additional Pruning Rules

      Section [5.2.4.3] defined several pruning rules to use to select
      routes from the FIB.  There are other rules that could also be
      used.

      o OSPF Route Class
         Routing protocols that have areas or make a distinction between
         internal and external routes divide their routes into classes
         by the type of information used to calculate the route.  A
         route is always chosen from the most preferred class unless
         none is available, in which case one is chosen from the second
         most preferred class, and so on.  In OSPF, the classes (in
         order from most preferred to least preferred) are intra-area,
         inter-area, type 1 external (external routes with internal
         metrics), and type 2 external.  As an additional wrinkle, a



Baker                       Standards Track                   [Page 157]

RFC 1812         Requirements for IP Version 4 Routers         June 1995


         router is configured to know what addresses ought to be
         accessible using intra-area routes, and will not use inter-
         area or external routes to reach these destinations even when
         no intra-area route is available.

         More precisely, we assume that each route has a class
         attribute, called route.class, which is assigned by the routing
         protocol.  The set of candidate routes is examined to determine
         if it contains any for which route.class = intra-area.  If so,
         all routes except those for which route.class = intra-area are
         discarded.  Otherwise, router checks whether the packet's
         destination falls within the address ranges configured for the
         local area.  If so, the entire set of candidate routes is
         deleted.  Otherwise, the set of candidate routes is examined to
         determine if it contains any for which route.class = inter-
         area.  If so, all routes except those for which route.class =
         inter-area are discarded.  Otherwise, the set of candidate
         routes is examined to determine if it contains any for which
         route.class = type 1 external.  If so, all routes except those
         for which route.class = type 1 external are discarded.

      o IS-IS Route Class
         IS-IS route classes work identically to OSPF's.  However, the
         set of classes defined by Integrated IS-IS is different, such
         that there isn't a one-to-one mapping between IS-IS route
         classes and OSPF route classes.  The route classes used by
         Integrated IS-IS are (in order from most preferred to least
         preferred) intra-area, inter-area, and external.

         The Integrated IS-IS internal class is equivalent to the OSPF
         internal class.  Likewise, the Integrated IS-IS external class
         is equivalent to OSPF's type 2 external class.  However,
         Integrated IS-IS does not make a distinction between inter-area
         routes and external routes with internal metrics - both are
         considered to be inter-area routes.  Thus, OSPF prefers true
         inter-area routes over external routes with internal metrics,
         whereas Integrated IS-IS gives the two types of routes equal
         preference.

      o IDPR Policy
         A specific case of Policy.  The IETF's Inter-domain Policy
         Routing Working Group is devising a routing protocol called
         Inter-Domain Policy Routing (IDPR) to support true policy-based
         routing in the Internet.  Packets with certain combinations of
         header attributes (such as specific combinations of source and
         destination addresses or special IDPR source route options) are
         required to use routes provided by the IDPR protocol.  Thus,
         unlike other Policy pruning rules, IDPR Policy would have to be



Baker                       Standards Track                   [Page 158]

RFC 1812         Requirements for IP Version 4 Routers         June 1995


         applied before any other pruning rules except Basic Match.

         Specifically, IDPR Policy examines the packet being forwarded
         to ascertain if its attributes require that it be forwarded
         using policy-based routes.  If so, IDPR Policy deletes all
         routes not provided by the IDPR protocol.

