E.3.1 The Revised Classic Algorithm

      The Revised Classic Algorithm is the form of the traditional
      algorithm that was discussed in Section [E.1].  The steps of this
      algorithm are:

      1.  Basic match
      2.  Longest match
      3.  Best metric
      4.  Policy

      Some implementations omit the Policy step, since it is needed only
      when routes may have metrics that are not comparable (because they
      were learned from different routing domains).

      The advantages of this algorithm are:

      (1) It is widely implemented.

      (2) Except for the Policy step (which an implementor can choose to
           make arbitrarily complex) the algorithm is simple both to
           understand and to implement.

      Its disadvantages are:

      (1) It does not handle IS-IS or OSPF route classes, and therefore
           cannot be used for Integrated IS-IS or OSPF.

      (2) It does not handle TOS or other path attributes.

      (3) The policy mechanisms are not standardized in any way, and are
           therefore are often implementation-specific.  This causes
           extra work for implementors (who must invent appropriate
           policy mechanisms) and for users (who must learn how to use



Baker                       Standards Track                   [Page 159]

RFC 1812         Requirements for IP Version 4 Routers         June 1995


           the mechanisms. This lack of a standardized mechanism also
           makes it difficult to build consistent configurations for
           routers from different vendors. This presents a significant
           practical deterrent to multi-vendor interoperability.

      (4) The proprietary policy mechanisms currently provided by
           vendors are often inadequate in complex parts of the
           Internet.

      (5) The algorithm has not been written down in any generally
           available document or standard.  It is, in effect, a part of
           the Internet Folklore.

