E.3.3 The OSPF Algorithm

      OSPF uses an algorithm that is virtually identical to the Router
      Requirements Algorithm except for one crucial difference: OSPF
      considers OSPF route classes.




Baker                       Standards Track                   [Page 160]

RFC 1812         Requirements for IP Version 4 Routers         June 1995


      The algorithm is:

      1.  Basic match
      2.  OSPF route class
      3.  Longest match
      4.  Weak TOS
      5.  Best metric
      6.  Policy

      Type of service support is not always present.  If it is not
      present then, of course, the fourth step would be omitted

      This algorithm has some advantages over the Revised Classic
      Algorithm:

      (1) It supports type of service routing.

      (2) Its rules are written down, rather than merely being a part of
           the Internet folklore.

      (3) It (obviously) works with OSPF.

      However, this algorithm also retains some of the disadvantages of
      the Revised Classic Algorithm:

      (1) Path properties other than type of service (e.g., MTU) are
           ignored.

      (2) As in the Revised Classic Algorithm, the details (or even the
           existence) of the Policy step are left to the discretion of
           the implementor.

      The OSPF Algorithm also has a further disadvantage (which is not
      shared by the Revised Classic Algorithm).  OSPF internal (intra-
      area or inter-area) routes are always considered to be superior to
      routes learned from other routing protocols, even in cases where
      the OSPF route matches fewer bits of the destination address.
      This is a policy decision that is inappropriate in some networks.

      Finally, it is worth noting that the OSPF Algorithm's TOS support
      suffers from a deficiency in that routing protocols that support
      TOS are implicitly preferred when forwarding packets that have
      non-zero TOS values.  This may not be appropriate in some cases.








Baker                       Standards Track                   [Page 161]

RFC 1812         Requirements for IP Version 4 Routers         June 1995


