E.3.4 The Integrated IS-IS Algorithm

   Integrated IS-IS uses an algorithm that is similar to but not quite
   identical to the OSPF Algorithm.  Integrated IS-IS uses a different
   set of route classes, and differs slightly in its handling of type of
   service.  The algorithm is:

   1.  Basic Match
   2.  IS-IS Route Classes
   3.  Longest Match
   4.  Weak TOS
   5.  Best Metric
   6.  Policy

   Although Integrated IS-IS uses Weak TOS, the protocol is only capable
   of carrying routes for a small specific subset of the possible values
   for the TOS field in the IP header.  Packets containing other values
   in the TOS field are routed using the default TOS.

   Type of service support is optional; if disabled, the fourth step
   would be omitted.  As in OSPF, the specification does not include the
   Policy step.

   This algorithm has some advantages over the Revised Classic
   Algorithm:

   (1) It supports type of service routing.
   (2) Its rules are written down, rather than merely being a part of
        the Internet folklore.
   (3) It (obviously) works with Integrated IS-IS.

   However, this algorithm also retains some of the disadvantages of the
   Revised Classic Algorithm:

   (1) Path properties other than type of service (e.g., MTU) are
        ignored.
   (2) As in the Revised Classic Algorithm, the details (or even the
        existence) of the Policy step are left to the discretion of the
        implementor.
   (3) It doesn't work with OSPF because of the differences between IS-
        IS route classes and OSPF route classes.  Also, because IS-IS
        supports only a subset of the possible TOS values, some obvious
        implementations of the Integrated IS-IS algorithm would not
        support OSPF's interpretation of TOS.

   The Integrated IS-IS Algorithm also has a further disadvantage (which
   is not shared by the Revised Classic Algorithm): IS-IS internal
   (intra-area or inter-area) routes are always considered to be



Baker                       Standards Track                   [Page 162]

RFC 1812         Requirements for IP Version 4 Routers         June 1995


   superior to routes learned from other routing protocols, even in
   cases where the IS-IS route matches fewer bits of the destination
   address and doesn't provide the requested type of service.  This is a
   policy decision that may not be appropriate in all cases.

   Finally, it is worth noting that the Integrated IS-IS Algorithm's TOS
   support suffers from the same deficiency noted for the OSPF
   Algorithm.

Security Considerations

   Although the focus of this document is interoperability rather than
   security, there are obviously many sections of this document that
   have some ramifications on network security.

   Security means different things to different people.  Security from a
   router's point of view is anything that helps to keep its own
   networks operational and in addition helps to keep the Internet as a
   whole healthy.  For the purposes of this document, the security
   services we are concerned with are denial of service, integrity, and
   authentication as it applies to the first two.  Privacy as a security
   service is important, but only peripherally a concern of a router -
   at least as of the date of this document.

   In several places in this document there are sections entitled ...
   Security Considerations.  These sections discuss specific
   considerations that apply to the general topic under discussion.

   Rarely does this document say do this and your router/network will be
   secure.  More likely, it says this is a good idea and if you do it,
   it *may* improve the security of the Internet and your local system
   in general.

   Unfortunately, this is the state-of-the-art AT THIS TIME.  Few if any
   of the network protocols a router is concerned with have reasonable,
   built-in security features.  Industry and the protocol designers have
   been and are continuing to struggle with these issues.  There is
   progress, but only small baby steps such as the peer-to-peer
   authentication available in the BGP and OSPF routing protocols.

   In particular, this document notes the current research into
   developing and enhancing network security.  Specific areas of
   research, development, and engineering that are underway as of this
   writing (December 1993) are in IP Security, SNMP Security, and common
   authentication technologies.

   Notwithstanding all the above, there are things both vendors and
   users can do to improve the security of their router.  Vendors should



Baker                       Standards Track                   [Page 163]

RFC 1812         Requirements for IP Version 4 Routers         June 1995


   get a copy of Trusted Computer System Interpretation [INTRO:8].  Even
   if a vendor decides not to submit their device for formal
   verification under these guidelines, the publication provides
   excellent guidance on general security design and practices for
   computing devices.

APPENDIX F: HISTORICAL ROUTING PROTOCOLS

   Certain routing protocols are common in the Internet, but the authors
   of this document cannot in good conscience recommend their use.  This
   is not because they do not work correctly, but because the
   characteristics of the Internet assumed in their design (simple
   routing, no policy, a single "core router" network under common
   administration, limited complexity, or limited network diameter) are
   not attributes of today's Internet.  Those parts of the Internet that
   still use them are generally limited "fringe" domains with limited
   complexity.

   As a matter of good faith, collected wisdom concerning their
   implementation is recorded in this section.

