F.1.2 Protocol Walk-through

      Indirect Neighbors: RFC-888, page 26

         An implementation of EGP MUST include indirect neighbor
         support.

      Polling Intervals: RFC-904, page 10

         The interval between Hello command retransmissions and the
         interval between Poll retransmissions SHOULD be configurable
         but there MUST be a minimum value defined.

         The interval at which an implementation will respond to Hello
         commands and Poll commands SHOULD be configurable but there
         MUST be a minimum value defined.

      Network Reachability: RFC-904, page 15

   An implementation MUST default to not providing the external list of
   routers in other autonomous systems; only the internal list of
   routers together with the nets that are reachable through those
   routers should be included in an Update Response/Indication packet.
   However, an implementation MAY elect to provide a configuration
   option enabling the external list to be provided.  An implementation
   MUST NOT include in the external list routers that were learned
   through the external list provided by a router in another autonomous
   system.  An implementation MUST NOT send a network back to the
   autonomous system from which it is learned, i.e.  it MUST do split-
   horizon on an autonomous system level.

   If more than 255 internal or 255 external routers need to be
   specified in a Network Reachability update, the networks reachable
   from routers that can not be listed MUST be merged into the list for
   one of the listed routers.  Which of the listed routers is chosen for
   this purpose SHOULD be user configurable, but SHOULD default to the
   source address of the EGP update being generated.

   An EGP update contains a series of blocks of network numbers, where
   each block contains a list of network numbers reachable at a
   particular distance through a particular router.  If more than 255
   networks are reachable at a particular distance through a particular
   router, they are split into multiple blocks (all of which have the
   same distance).  Similarly, if more than 255 blocks are required to
   list the networks reachable through a particular router, the router's
   address is listed as many times as necessary to include all the
   blocks in the update.




Baker                       Standards Track                   [Page 165]

RFC 1812         Requirements for IP Version 4 Routers         June 1995


Unsolicited Updates: RFC-904, page 16

   If a network is shared with the peer, an implementation MUST send an
   unsolicited update upon entry to the Up state if the source network
   is the shared network.

Neighbor Reachability: RFC-904, page 6, 13-15

   The table on page 6 that describes the values of j and k (the
   neighbor up and down thresholds) is incorrect.  It is reproduced
   correctly here:

      Name    Active  Passive Description
      -----------------------------------------------
       j         3       1    neighbor-up threshold
       k         1       0    neighbor-down threshold

   The value for k in passive mode also specified incorrectly in RFC-
   904, page 14 The values in parenthesis should read:

      (j = 1, k = 0, and T3/T1 = 4)

   As an optimization, an implementation can refrain from sending a
   Hello command when a Poll is due.  If an implementation does so, it
   SHOULD provide a user configurable option to disable this
   optimization.

Abort timer: RFC-904, pages 6, 12, 13

   An EGP implementation MUST include support for the abort timer (as
   documented in section 4.1.4 of RFC-904).  An implementation SHOULD
   use the abort timer in the Idle state to automatically issue a Start
   event to restart the protocol machine.  Recommended values are P4 for
   a critical error (Administratively prohibited, Protocol Violation and
   Parameter Problem) and P5 for all others.  The abort timer SHOULD NOT
   be started when a Stop event was manually initiated (such as through
   a network management protocol).

Cease command received in Idle state: RFC-904, page 13

   When the EGP state machine is in the Idle state, it MUST reply to
   Cease commands with a Cease-ack response.

Hello Polling Mode: RFC-904, page 11

   An EGP implementation MUST include support for both active and
   passive polling modes.




Baker                       Standards Track                   [Page 166]

RFC 1812         Requirements for IP Version 4 Routers         June 1995


Neighbor Acquisition Messages: RFC-904, page 18

   As noted the Hello and Poll Intervals should only be present in
   Request and Confirm messages.  Therefore the length of an EGP
   Neighbor Acquisition Message is 14 bytes for a Request or Confirm
   message and 10 bytes for a Refuse, Cease or Cease-ack message.
   Implementations MUST NOT send 14 bytes for Refuse, Cease or Cease-ack
   messages but MUST allow for implementations that send 14 bytes for
   these messages.

Sequence Numbers: RFC-904, page 10

   Response or indication packets received with a sequence number not
   equal to S MUST be discarded.  The send sequence number S MUST be
   incremented just before the time a Poll command is sent and at no
   other times.

