F.2.2 Protocol Walk-Through

   Dealing with changes in topology: [ROUTE:3], page 11

        An implementation of RIP MUST provide a means for timing out
        routes.  Since messages are occasionally lost, implementations
        MUST NOT invalidate a route based on a single missed update.

        Implementations MUST by default wait six times the update
        interval before invalidating a route.  A router MAY have
        configuration options to alter this value.

   DISCUSSION
      It is important to routing stability that all routers in a RIP
      autonomous system use similar timeout value for invalidating
      routes, and therefore it is important that an implementation
      default to the timeout value specified in the RIP specification.



Baker                       Standards Track                   [Page 167]

RFC 1812         Requirements for IP Version 4 Routers         June 1995


      However, that timeout value is too conservative in environments
      where packet loss is reasonably rare.  In such an environment, a
      network manager may wish to be able to decrease the timeout period
      to promote faster recovery from failures.

   IMPLEMENTATION
      There is a very simple mechanism that a router may use to meet the
      requirement to invalidate routes promptly after they time out.
      Whenever the router scans the routing table to see if any routes
      have timed out, it also notes the age of the least recently
      updated route that has not yet timed out.  Subtracting this age
      from the timeout period gives the amount of time until the router
      again needs to scan the table for timed out routes.

Split Horizon: [ROUTE:3], page 14-15

   An implementation of RIP MUST implement split horizon, a scheme used
   for avoiding problems caused by including routes in updates sent to
   the router from which they were learned.

   An implementation of RIP SHOULD implement Split horizon with poisoned
   reverse, a variant of split horizon that includes routes learned from
   a router sent to that router, but sets their metric to infinity.
   Because of the routing overhead that may be incurred by implementing
   split horizon with poisoned reverse, implementations MAY include an
   option to select whether poisoned reverse is in effect.  An
   implementation SHOULD limit the time in which it sends reverse routes
   at an infinite metric.

   IMPLEMENTATION
      Each of the following algorithms can be used to limit the time for
      which poisoned reverse is applied to a route.  The first algorithm
      is more complex but does a more thorough job of limiting poisoned
      reverse to only those cases where it is necessary.

      The goal of both algorithms is to ensure that poison reverse is
      done for any destination whose route has changed in the last Route
      Lifetime (typically 180 seconds), unless it can be sure that the
      previous route used the same output interface.  The Route Lifetime
      is used because that is the amount of time RIP will keep around an
      old route before declaring it stale.

      The time intervals (and derived variables) used in the following
      algorithms are as follows:

      Tu The Update Timer; the number of seconds between RIP updates.
           This typically defaults to 30 seconds.




Baker                       Standards Track                   [Page 168]

RFC 1812         Requirements for IP Version 4 Routers         June 1995


      Rl The Route Lifetime, in seconds.  This is the amount of time
           that a route is presumed to be good, without requiring an
           update.  This typically defaults to 180 seconds.

      Ul The Update Loss; the number of consecutive updates that have to
           be lost or fail to mention a route before RIP deletes the
           route.  Ul is calculated to be (Rl/Tu)+1.  The +1 is to
           account for the fact that the first time the ifcounter is
           decremented will be less than Tu seconds after it is
           initialized.  Typically, Ul will be 7: (180/30)+1.


      In The value to set ifcounter to when a destination is newly
           learned.  This value is Ul-4, where the 4 is RIP's garbage
           collection timer/30

      The first algorithm is:

      - Associated with each destination is a counter, called the
         ifcounter below.  Poison reverse is done for any route whose
         destination's ifcounter is greater than zero.

      - After a regular (not triggered or in response to a request)
         update is sent, all the non-zero ifcounters are decremented by
         one.

      - When a route to a destination is created, its ifcounter is set
         as follows:

         - If the new route is superseding a valid route, and the old
            route used a different (logical) output interface, then the
            ifcounter is set to Ul.

         - If the new route is superseding a stale route, and the old
            route used a different (logical) output interface, then the
            ifcounter is set to MAX(0, Ul - INT(seconds that the route
            has been stale/Ut).

         - If there was no previous route to the destination, the
            ifcounter is set to In.

         - Otherwise, the ifcounter is set to zero

      - RIP also maintains a timer, called the resettimer below.  Poison
         reverse is done on all routes whenever resettimer has not
         expired (regardless of the ifcounter values).





Baker                       Standards Track                   [Page 169]

RFC 1812         Requirements for IP Version 4 Routers         June 1995


      - When RIP is started, restarted, reset, or otherwise has its
         routing table cleared, it sets the resettimer to go off in Rl
         seconds.

      The second algorithm is identical to the first except that:

      - The rules which set the ifcounter to non-zero values are changed
         to always set it to Rl/Tu, and

      - The resettimer is eliminated.

 Triggered updates: [ROUTE:3], page 15-16; page 29

      Triggered updates (also called flash updates) are a mechanism for
      immediately notifying a router's neighbors when the router adds or
      deletes routes or changes their metrics.  A router MUST send a
      triggered update when routes are deleted or their metrics are
      increased.  A router MAY send a triggered update when routes are
      added or their metrics decreased.

      Since triggered updates can cause excessive routing overhead,
      implementations MUST use the following mechanism to limit the
      frequency of triggered updates:

      (1) When a router sends a triggered update, it sets a timer to a
           random time between one and five seconds in the future.  The
           router must not generate additional triggered updates before
           this timer expires.

      (2) If the router would generate a triggered update during this
           interval it sets a flag indicating that a triggered update is
           desired.  The router also logs the desired triggered update.

      (3) When the triggered update timer expires, the router checks the
           triggered update flag.  If the flag is set then the router
           sends a single triggered update which includes all the
           changes that were logged.  The router then clears the flag
           and, since a triggered update was sent, restarts this
           algorithm.

      (4) The flag is also cleared whenever a regular update is sent.

      Triggered updates SHOULD include all routes that have changed
      since the most recent regular (non-triggered) update.  Triggered
      updates MUST NOT include routes that have not changed since the
      most recent regular update.





Baker                       Standards Track                   [Page 170]

RFC 1812         Requirements for IP Version 4 Routers         June 1995


   DISCUSSION
      Sending all routes, whether they have changed recently or not, is
      unacceptable in triggered updates because the tremendous size of
      many Internet routing tables could otherwise result in
      considerable bandwidth being wasted on triggered updates.

Use of UDP: [ROUTE:3], page 18-19.

   RIP packets sent to an IP broadcast address SHOULD have their initial
   TTL set to one.

   Note that to comply with Section [6.1] of this memo, a router SHOULD
   use UDP checksums in RIP packets that it originates, MUST discard RIP
   packets received with invalid UDP checksums, but MUST NOT discard
   received RIP packets simply because they do not contain UDP
   checksums.

Addressing Considerations: [ROUTE:3], page 22

   A RIP implementation SHOULD support host routes.  If it does not, it
   MUST (as described on page 27 of [ROUTE:3]) ignore host routes in
   received updates.  A router MAY log ignored hosts routes.

   The special address 0.0.0.0 is used to describe a default route.  A
   default route is used as the route of last resort (i.e., when a route
   to the specific net does not exist in the routing table).  The router
   MUST be able to create a RIP entry for the address 0.0.0.0.

Input Processing - Response: [ROUTE:3], page 26

   When processing an update, the following validity checks MUST be
   performed:

   o The response MUST be from UDP port 520.

   o The source address MUST be on a directly connected subnet (or on a
      directly connected, non-subnetted network) to be considered valid.

   o The source address MUST NOT be one of the router's addresses.

   DISCUSSION
      Some networks, media, and interfaces allow a sending node to
      receive packets that it broadcasts.  A router must not accept its
      own packets as valid routing updates and process them.  The last
      requirement prevents a router from accepting its own routing
      updates and processing them (on the assumption that they were sent
      by some other router on the network).




Baker                       Standards Track                   [Page 171]

RFC 1812         Requirements for IP Version 4 Routers         June 1995


   An implementation MUST NOT replace an existing route if the metric
   received is equal to the existing metric except in accordance with
   the following heuristic.

   An implementation MAY choose to implement the following heuristic to
   deal with the above situation.  Normally, it is useless to change the
   route to a network from one router to another if both are advertised
   at the same metric.  However, the route being advertised by one of
   the routers may be in the process of timing out.  Instead of waiting
   for the route to timeout, the new route can be used after a specified
   amount of time has elapsed.  If this heuristic is implemented, it
   MUST wait at least halfway to the expiration point before the new
   route is installed.

