F.3 GATEWAY TO GATEWAY PROTOCOL - GGP

   The Gateway to Gateway protocol is considered obsolete and SHOULD NOT
   be implemented.

Acknowledgments

   O that we now had here
   But one ten thousand of those men in England
   That do no work to-day!

   What's he that wishes so?
   My cousin Westmoreland? No, my fair cousin:
   If we are mark'd to die, we are enow
   To do our country loss; and if to live,
   The fewer men, the greater share of honour.
   God's will! I pray thee, wish not one man more.
   By Jove, I am not covetous for gold,
   Nor care I who doth feed upon my cost;
   It yearns me not if men my garments wear;
   Such outward things dwell not in my desires:
   But if it be a sin to covet honour,
   I am the most offending soul alive.
   No, faith, my coz, wish not a man from England:
   God's peace! I would not lose so great an honour
   As one man more, methinks, would share from me
   For the best hope I have. O, do not wish one more!
   Rather proclaim it, Westmoreland, through my host,
   That he which hath no stomach to this fight,
   Let him depart; his passport shall be made
   And crowns for convoy put into his purse:
   We would not die in that man's company
   That fears his fellowship to die with us.
   This day is called the feast of Crispian:
   He that outlives this day, and comes safe home,
   Will stand a tip-toe when the day is named,
   And rouse him at the name of Crispian.
   He that shall live this day, and see old age,
   Will yearly on the vigil feast his neighbours,
   And say 'To-morrow is Saint Crispian:'
   Then will he strip his sleeve and show his scars.
   And say 'These wounds I had on Crispin's day.'
   Old men forget: yet all shall be forgot,
   But he'll remember with advantages
   What feats he did that day: then shall our names.
   Familiar in his mouth as household words
   Harry the king, Bedford and Exeter,
   Warwick and Talbot, Salisbury and Gloucester,



Baker                       Standards Track                   [Page 173]

RFC 1812         Requirements for IP Version 4 Routers         June 1995


   Be in their flowing cups freshly remember'd.
   This story shall the good man teach his son;
   And Crispin Crispian shall ne'er go by,
   From this day to the ending of the world,
   But we in it shall be remember'd;
   We few, we happy few, we band of brothers;
   For he to-day that sheds his blood with me
   Shall be my brother; be he ne'er so vile,
   This day shall gentle his condition:
   And gentlemen in England now a-bed
   Shall think themselves accursed they were not here,
   And hold their manhoods cheap whiles any speaks
   That fought with us upon Saint Crispin's day.

                                   -- William Shakespeare

   This memo is a product of the IETF's Router Requirements Working
   Group.  A memo such as this one is of necessity the work of many more
   people than could be listed here.  A wide variety of vendors, network
   managers, and other experts from the Internet community graciously
   contributed their time and wisdom to improve the quality of this
   memo.  The editor wishes to extend sincere thanks to all of them.

   The current editor also wishes to single out and extend his heartfelt
   gratitude and appreciation to the original editor of this document;
   Philip Almquist.  Without Philip's work, both as the original editor
   and as the Chair of the working group, this document would not have
   been produced.  He also wishes to express deep and heartfelt
   gratitude to the previous editor, Frank Kastenholz.  Frank changed
   the original document from a collection of information to a useful
   description of IP technology - in his words, a "snapshot" of the
   technology in 1991.  One can only hope that this snapshot, of the
   technology in 1994, is as clear.

   Philip Almquist, Jeffrey Burgan, Frank Kastenholz, and Cathy
   Wittbrodt each wrote major chapters of this memo.  Others who made
   major contributions to the document included Bill Barns, Steve
   Deering, Kent England, Jim Forster, Martin Gross, Jeff Honig, Steve
   Knowles, Yoni Malachi, Michael Reilly, and Walt Wimer.

   Additional text came from Andy Malis, Paul Traina, Art Berggreen,
   John Cavanaugh, Ross Callon, John Lekashman, Brian Lloyd, Gary
   Malkin, Milo Medin, John Moy, Craig Partridge, Stephanie Price, Yakov
   Rekhter, Steve Senum, Richard Smith, Frank Solensky, Rich Woundy, and
   others who have been inadvertently overlooked.

   Some of the text in this memo has been (shamelessly) plagiarized from
   earlier documents, most notably RFC-1122 by Bob Braden and the Host



Baker                       Standards Track                   [Page 174]

RFC 1812         Requirements for IP Version 4 Routers         June 1995


   Requirements Working Group, and RFC-1009 by Bob Braden and Jon
   Postel.  The work of these earlier authors is gratefully
   acknowledged.

   Jim Forster was a co-chair of the Router Requirements Working Group
   during its early meetings, and was instrumental in getting the group
   off to a good start.  Jon Postel, Bob Braden, and Walt Prue also
   contributed to the success by providing a wealth of good advice
   before the group's first meeting.  Later on, Phill Gross, Vint Cerf,
   and Noel Chiappa all provided valuable advice and support.

   Mike St.  Johns coordinated the Working Group's interactions with the
   security community, and Frank Kastenholz coordinated the Working
   Group's interactions with the network management area.  Allison
   Mankin and K.K.  Ramakrishnan provided expertise on the issues of
   congestion control and resource allocation.

   Many more people than could possibly be listed or credited here
   participated in the deliberations of the Router Requirements Working
   Group, either through electronic mail or by attending meetings.
   However, the efforts of Ross Callon and Vince Fuller in sorting out
   the difficult issues of route choice and route leaking are especially
   acknowledged.

   The editor thanks his employer, Cisco Systems, for allowing him to
   spend the time necessary to produce the 1994 snapshot.

Editor's Address

   The address of the current editor of this document is

      Fred Baker
      Cisco Systems
      519 Lado Drive
      Santa Barbara, California 93111
      USA

      Phone:+1 805-681-0115

      EMail: fred@cisco.com











Baker                       Standards Track                   [Page 175]

