3.3 Prevents Attacks from Misbehaving Receivers

   [SCWA99] outlines several methods for a receiver to induce a TCP
   sender into violating congestion control and transmitting data at a
   potentially inappropriate rate.  One of the outlined attacks is "ACK
   Division".  This scheme involves the receiver sending multiple ACKs
   for each incoming data segment, each ACKing only a small portion of
   the original TCP data segment.  Since TCP senders have traditionally
   used ACK counting to increase cwnd, ACK division causes
   inappropriately rapid cwnd growth and, in turn, a potentially
   inappropriate sending rate.  A TCP sender that uses ABC can prevent
   this attack from being used to undermine standard congestion control
   because the cwnd increase is based on the number of bytes ACKed,
   rather than the number of ACKs received.

   To prevent misbehaving receivers from inducing inappropriate sender
   behavior, this document suggests TCP implementations use ABC, even if
   L=1*SMSS bytes (i.e., not allowing ABC to provide more aggressive
   cwnd growth than allowed by RFC 2581).

4   Disadvantages

   The main disadvantages of using ABC with L=2*SMSS bytes are an
   increase in the burstiness of TCP and a small increase in the overall
   loss rate.  [All98] discusses the two ways that ABC increases the
   burstiness of the TCP sender.  First, the "micro burstiness" of the
   connection is increased.  In other words, the number of segments sent
   in response to each incoming ACK is increased by at most 1 segment
   when using ABC with L=2*SMSS bytes in conjunction with a receiver
   that is sending delayed ACKs.  During slow start this translates into
   an increase from sending 2 back-to-back segments to sending 3 back-
   to-back packets in response to an ACK for a single packet.  Or, an
   increase from 3 packets to 4 packets when receiving a delayed ACK for
   two outstanding packets.  Note that ACK loss can cause larger bursts.
   However, ABC only increases the burst size by at most 1*SMSS bytes
   per ACK received when compared to the standard behavior.  This slight



Allman                        Experimental                      [Page 6]

RFC 3465            TCP Congestion Control with ABC        February 2003


   increase in the burstiness should only cause problems for devices
   that have very small buffers.  In addition, ABC increases the "macro
   burstiness" of the TCP sender in response to delayed ACKs in slow
   start.  Rather than increasing cwnd by roughly 1.5 times per RTT, ABC
   roughly doubles the congestion window every RTT.  However, doubling
   cwnd every RTT fits within the spirit of slow start, as originally
   outlined [Jac88].

   With the increased burstiness comes a modest increase in the loss
   rate for a TCP connection employing ABC (see the next section for a
   short discussion on the fairness of ABC to non-ABC flows).  The
   additional loss can be directly attributable to the increased
   aggressiveness of ABC.  During slow start cwnd is increased more
   rapidly.  Therefore when loss occurs cwnd is larger and more drops
   are likely.  Similarly, a congestion avoidance cycle takes roughly
   half, as long when using ABC and delayed ACKs when compared to an ACK
   counting implementation.  In other words, a TCP sender reaches the
   capacity of the network path, drops a packet and reduces the
   congestion window by half roughly twice as often when using ABC.
   However, as discussed above, in spite of the additional loss an ABC
   TCP sender generally obtains better overall performance than a non-
   ABC TCP [All99].

   Due to the increase in the packet drop rate we suggest ABC be
   implemented in conjunction with selective acknowledgments [RFC2018].

5   Fairness Considerations

   [All99] presents several simple simulations conducted to measure the
   impact of ABC on competing traffic (both ABC and non-ABC).  The
   experiments show that while ABC increases the drop rate for the
   connection using ABC, competing traffic is not greatly effected.  The
   experiments show that standard TCP and ABC both obtain roughly the
   same throughput, regardless of the variant of the competing traffic.
   The simulations also reaffirm that ABC outperforms non-ABC TCP in an
   environment with varying types of TCP connections.  On the other
   hand, the simulations presented in [All99] are not necessarily
   realistic.  Therefore we are encouraging more experimentation in the
   Internet.

6   Security Considerations

   As discussed in section 3.3, ABC protects a TCP sender from a
   misbehaving receiver that induces the sender into transmitting at an
   inappropriate rate with an "ACK division" attack.  This, in turn,
   protects the network from an overly aggressive sender.





Allman                        Experimental                      [Page 7]

RFC 3465            TCP Congestion Control with ABC        February 2003


7   Conclusions

   This document RECOMMENDS that all TCP stacks be modified to use ABC
   with L=1*SMSS bytes.  This change does not increase the
   aggressiveness of TCP.  Furthermore, simulations of ABC with L=2*SMSS
   bytes show a promising performance improvement that we encourage
   researchers to experiment with in the Internet.

Acknowledgments

   This document has benefited from discussions with and encouragement
   from Sally Floyd.  Van Jacobson and Reiner Ludwig provided valuable
   input on the implications of byte counting on the RTO.  Reiner Ludwig
   and Kostas Pentikousis provided valuable feedback on a draft of this
   document.

Normative References

   [RFC1122] Braden, R., Ed., "Requirements for Internet Hosts --
             Communication Layers", STD 3, RFC 1122, October 1989.

   [RFC2119] Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
             Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119, March 1997.

   [RFC2581] Allman, M., Paxson, V. and W. Stevens, "TCP Congestion
             Control", RFC 2581, April 1999.

Informative References

   [All98]   Mark Allman.  On the Generation and Use of TCP
             Acknowledgments. ACM Computer Communication Review, 29(3),
             July 1998.

   [All99]   Mark Allman.  TCP Byte Counting Refinements. ACM Computer
             Communication Review, 29(3), July 1999.

   [Jac88]   Van Jacobson.  Congestion Avoidance and Control.  ACM
             SIGCOMM 1988.

   [Pax97]   Vern Paxson.  Automated Packet Trace Analysis of TCP
             Implementations.  ACM SIGCOMM, September 1997.

   [RFC2018] Mathis, M., Mahdavi, J., Floyd, S. and A. Romanow, "TCP
             Selective Acknowledgment Options", RFC 2018, October 1996.

   [RFC2861] Handley, M., Padhye, J. and S. Floyd, "TCP Congestion
             Window Validation", RFC 2861, June 2000.




Allman                        Experimental                      [Page 8]

RFC 3465            TCP Congestion Control with ABC        February 2003


   [SCWA99]  Stefan Savage, Neal Cardwell, David Wetherall, Tom
             Anderson.  TCP Congestion Control with a Misbehaving
             Receiver.  ACM Computer Communication Review, 29(5),
             October 1999.

Author's Address

   Mark Allman
   BBN Technologies/NASA Glenn Research Center
   Lewis Field
   21000 Brookpark Rd.  MS 54-5
   Cleveland, OH  44135

   Fax: 216-433-8705
   Phone: 216-433-6586
   EMail: mallman@bbn.com
   http://roland.grc.nasa.gov/~mallman


































Allman                        Experimental                      [Page 9]

RFC 3465            TCP Congestion Control with ABC        February 2003


Full Copyright Statement

   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2003).  All Rights Reserved.

   This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to
   others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it
   or assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published
   and distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any
   kind, provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
   included on all such copies and derivative works.  However, this
   document itself may not be modified in any way, such as by removing
   the copyright notice or references to the Internet Society or other
   Internet organizations, except as needed for the purpose of
   developing Internet standards in which case the procedures for
   copyrights defined in the Internet Standards process must be
   followed, or as required to translate it into languages other than
   English.

   The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be
   revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or assigns.

   This document and the information contained herein is provided on an
   "AS IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET ENGINEERING
   TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING
   BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION
   HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
   MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

Acknowledgement

   Funding for the RFC Editor function is currently provided by the
   Internet Society.



















Allman                        Experimental                     [Page 10]

