2.  Architecture

   There are two approaches that can be taken when trying to integrate
   arbitrary MIB modules with the SNMP agent: request-response and
   cache-ahead.

   The request-response model simply propagates the SNMP requests
   received by the SNMP agent to the user process which exported the MIB
   module.  The SMUX peer then performs the operation and returns a
   response.  In turn, the SNMP agent propagates this response back to
   the network management station.  The request-response model is said
   to be agent-driven since, after registration, the SNMP agent
   initiates all transactions.

   The cache-ahead model requires that the SMUX peer, after
   registration, periodically updates the SNMP agent with the subtree
   for the MIB module which has been registered.  The SNMP agent, upon
   receiving an SNMP request for information retrieval, locally performs
   the operation, and returns a response to the network management
   station.  (SNMP set requests are given immediately to the SMUX peer.)
   The cache-ahead model is said to be peer-driven since, after
   registration, the SMUX peer initiates all transactions.

   There are advantages and disadvantages to both approaches.  As such,
   the architecture envisioned supports both models in the following
   fashion: the protocol between the SNMP agent and the SMUX peer is
   based on the request-response model.  However, the SMUX peer, may
   itself be a user-process which employs the cache-ahead model with



Rose                                                            [Page 2]

RFC 1227                          SMUX                          May 1991


   other user-processes.

   Obviously, the SMUX peer which employs the cache-ahead model acts as
   a "firewall" for those user-processes which actually implement the
   managed objects in the given MIB module.

   Note that this document describes only the SMUX protocol, for the
   request-response model.  Each SMUX peer is free to define a cache-
   ahead protocol specific for the application at hand.

