TABLE SUMMARY
       The following list summarizes the purpose of each of the tables in the Open_vSwitch database.  Each table is described in more detail on a later page.

       Table     Purpose
       Open_vSwitch
                 Open vSwitch configuration.
       Bridge    Bridge configuration.
       Port      Port configuration.
       Interface One physical network device in a Port.
       Flow_Table
                 OpenFlow table configuration
       QoS       Quality of Service configuration
       Queue     QoS output queue.
       Mirror    Port mirroring.
       Controller
                 OpenFlow controller configuration.
       Manager   OVSDB management connection.
       NetFlow   NetFlow configuration.
       SSL       SSL configuration.
       sFlow     sFlow configuration.
       IPFIX     IPFIX configuration.
       Flow_Sample_Collector_Set
                 Flow_Sample_Collector_Set configuration.
       AutoAttach
                 AutoAttach configuration.

Open_vSwitch TABLE
       Configuration for an Open vSwitch daemon. There must be exactly one record in the Open_vSwitch table.

   Summary:
       Configuration:
         bridges                     set of Bridges
         ssl                         optional SSL
         external_ids : system-id    optional string
         external_ids : xs-system-uuid
                                     optional string
         external_ids : hostname     optional string
         external_ids : rundir       optional string
         other_config : stats-update-interval
                                     optional string, containing an integer, at least 5,000
         other_config : flow-restore-wait
                                     optional string, either true or false
         other_config : flow-limit   optional string, containing an integer, at least 0
         other_config : max-idle     optional string, containing an integer, at least 500
         other_config : hw-offload   optional string, either true or false
         other_config : tc-policy    optional string, one of none, skip_hw, or skip_sw
         other_config : dpdk-init    optional string, one of false, true, or try
         other_config : dpdk-lcore-mask
                                     optional string, containing an integer, at least 1
         other_config : pmd-cpu-mask
                                     optional string
         other_config : dpdk-alloc-mem
                                     optional string, containing an integer, at least 0
         other_config : dpdk-socket-mem
                                     optional string
         other_config : dpdk-hugepage-dir
                                     optional string
         other_config : dpdk-extra   optional string
         other_config : vhost-sock-dir
                                     optional string
         other_config : vhost-iommu-support
                                     optional string, either true or false
         other_config : per-port-memory
                                     optional string, either true or false
         other_config : tx-flush-interval
                                     optional string, containing an integer, in range 0 to 1,000,000
         other_config : pmd-perf-metrics
                                     optional string, either true or false
         other_config : smc-enable   optional string, either true or false
         other_config : n-handler-threads
                                     optional string, containing an integer, at least 1
         other_config : n-revalidator-threads
                                     optional string, containing an integer, at least 1
         other_config : emc-insert-inv-prob
                                     optional string, containing an integer, in range 0 to 4,294,967,295
         other_config : vlan-limit   optional string, containing an integer, at least 0
         other_config : bundle-idle-timeout
                                     optional string, containing an integer, at least 1
       Status:
         next_cfg                    integer
         cur_cfg                     integer
         dpdk_initialized            boolean
         Statistics:
            other_config : enable-statistics
                                     optional string, either true or false
            statistics : cpu         optional string, containing an integer, at least 1
            statistics : load_average
                                     optional string
            statistics : memory      optional string
            statistics : process_NAME
                                     optional string
            statistics : file_systems
                                     optional string
       Version Reporting:
         ovs_version                 optional string
         db_version                  optional string
         system_type                 optional string
         system_version              optional string
         dpdk_version                optional string
       Capabilities:
         datapath_types              set of strings
         iface_types                 set of strings
       Database Configuration:
         manager_options             set of Managers
       Common Columns:
         other_config                map of string-string pairs
         external_ids                map of string-string pairs

   Details:
     Configuration:

       bridges: set of Bridges
              Set of bridges managed by the daemon.

       ssl: optional SSL
              SSL used globally by the daemon.

       external_ids : system-id: optional string
              A unique identifier for the Open vSwitch's physical host. The form of the identifier depends on the type of the host. On a Citrix XenServer, this will likely be  the  same
              as external_ids:xs-system-uuid.

       external_ids : xs-system-uuid: optional string
              The Citrix XenServer universally unique identifier for the physical host as displayed by xe host-list.

       external_ids : hostname: optional string
              The hostname for the host running Open vSwitch. This is a fully qualified domain name since version 2.6.2.

       external_ids : rundir: optional string
              In  Open  vSwitch 2.8 and later, the run directory of the running Open vSwitch daemon. This directory is used for runtime state such as control and management sockets. The
              value of other_config:vhost-sock-dir is relative to this directory.

       other_config : stats-update-interval: optional string, containing an integer, at least 5,000
              Interval for updating statistics to the database, in milliseconds. This option will affect the update of the statistics column in the following tables: Port,  Interface  ,
              Mirror.

              Default value is 5000 ms.

              Getting statistics more frequently can be achieved via OpenFlow.

       other_config : flow-restore-wait: optional string, either true or false
              When  ovs-vswitchd  starts  up, it has an empty flow table and therefore it handles all arriving packets in its default fashion according to its configuration, by dropping
              them or sending them to an OpenFlow controller or switching them as a standalone switch. This behavior is ordinarily desirable. However, if ovs-vswitchd is  restarting  as
              part of a ``hot-upgrade,'' then this leads to a relatively long period during which packets are mishandled.

              This  option  allows  for improvement. When ovs-vswitchd starts with this value set as true, it will neither flush or expire previously set datapath flows nor will it send
              and receive any packets to or from the datapath. When this value is later set to false, ovs-vswitchd will start receiving packets from the datapath and re-setup the flows.

              Thus, with this option, the procedure for a hot-upgrade of ovs-vswitchd becomes roughly the following:

              1.
                Stop ovs-vswitchd.

              2.
                Set other_config:flow-restore-wait to true.

              3.
                Start ovs-vswitchd.

              4.
                Use ovs-ofctl (or some other program, such as an OpenFlow controller) to restore the OpenFlow flow table to the desired state.

              5.
                Set other_config:flow-restore-wait to false (or remove it entirely from the database).

              The ovs-ctl's ``restart'' and ``force-reload-kmod'' functions use the above config option during hot upgrades.

       other_config : flow-limit: optional string, containing an integer, at least 0
              The maximum number of flows allowed in the datapath flow table. Internally OVS will choose a flow limit which will likely be lower than this number,  based  on  real  time
              network conditions. Tweaking this value is discouraged unless you know exactly what you're doing.

              The default is 200000.

       other_config : max-idle: optional string, containing an integer, at least 500
              The  maximum  time  (in  ms)  that  idle flows will remain cached in the datapath. Internally OVS will check the validity and activity for datapath flows regularly and may
              expire flows quicker than this number, based on real time network conditions. Tweaking this value is discouraged unless you know exactly what you're doing.

              The default is 10000.

       other_config : hw-offload: optional string, either true or false
              Set this value to true to enable netdev flow offload.

              The default value is false. Changing this value requires restarting the daemon

              Currently Open vSwitch supports hardware offloading on Linux systems. On other systems, this value is ignored. This functionality is considered  'experimental'.  Depending
              on  which  OpenFlow matches and actions are configured, which kernel version is used, and what hardware is available, Open vSwitch may not be able to offload functionality
              to hardware.

       other_config : tc-policy: optional string, one of none, skip_hw, or skip_sw
              Specified the policy used with HW offloading. Options:

              none   Add software rule and offload rule to HW.

              skip_sw
                     Offload rule to HW only.

              skip_hw
                     Add software rule without offloading rule to HW.

              This is only relevant if other_config:hw-offload is enabled.

              The default value is none.

       other_config : dpdk-init: optional string, one of false, true, or try
              Set this value to true or try to enable runtime support for DPDK ports. The vswitch must have compile-time support for DPDK as well.

              A value of true will cause the ovs-vswitchd process to abort if DPDK cannot be initialized. A value of try will allow the ovs-vswitchd process to continue running even  if
              DPDK cannot be initialized.

              The default value is false. Changing this value requires restarting the daemon

              If this value is false at startup, any dpdk ports which are configured in the bridge will fail due to memory errors.

       other_config : dpdk-lcore-mask: optional string, containing an integer, at least 1
              Specifies  the  CPU  cores where dpdk lcore threads should be spawned. The DPDK lcore threads are used for DPDK library tasks, such as library internal message processing,
              logging, etc. Value should be in the form of a hex string (so '0x123') similar to the 'taskset' mask input.

              The lowest order bit corresponds to the first CPU core. A set bit means the corresponding core is available and an lcore thread will be created and pinned to  it.  If  the
              input does not cover all cores, those uncovered cores are considered not set.

              For performance reasons, it is best to set this to a single core on the system, rather than allow lcore threads to float.

              If  not  specified,  the  value will be determined by choosing the lowest CPU core from initial cpu affinity list. Otherwise, the value will be passed directly to the DPDK
              library.

       other_config : pmd-cpu-mask: optional string
              Specifies CPU mask for setting the cpu affinity of PMD (Poll Mode Driver) threads. Value should be in the form of hex string, similar to the dpdk EAL '-c COREMASK'  option
              input or the 'taskset' mask input.

              The lowest order bit corresponds to the first CPU core. A set bit means the corresponding core is available and a pmd thread will be created and pinned to it. If the input
              does not cover all cores, those uncovered cores are considered not set.

              If not specified, one pmd thread will be created for each numa node and pinned to any available core on the numa node by default.

       other_config : dpdk-alloc-mem: optional string, containing an integer, at least 0
              Specifies the amount of memory to preallocate from the hugepage pool, regardless of socket. It is recommended that dpdk-socket-mem is used instead.

       other_config : dpdk-socket-mem: optional string
              Specifies the amount of memory to preallocate from the hugepage pool, on a per-socket basis.

              The specifier is a comma-separated string, in ascending order of CPU socket. E.g. On a four socket system 1024,0,2048 would set socket 0 to preallocate 1024MB, socket 1 to
              preallocate 0MB, socket 2 to preallocate 2048MB and socket 3 (no value given) to preallocate 0MB.

              If  dpdk-socket-mem and dpdk-alloc-mem are not specified, dpdk-socket-mem will be used and the default value is 1024 for each numa node. If dpdk-socket-mem and dpdk-alloc-
              mem are specified at same time, dpdk-socket-mem will be used as default. Changing this value requires restarting the daemon.

       other_config : dpdk-hugepage-dir: optional string
              Specifies the path to the hugetlbfs mount point.

              If not specified, this will be guessed by the DPDK library (default is /dev/hugepages). Changing this value requires restarting the daemon.

       other_config : dpdk-extra: optional string
              Specifies additional eal command line arguments for DPDK.

              The default is empty. Changing this value requires restarting the daemon

       other_config : vhost-sock-dir: optional string
              Specifies a relative path from external_ids:rundir to the vhost-user unix domain socket files. If this value is unset, the sockets are put directly in external_ids:rundir.

              Changing this value requires restarting the daemon.

       other_config : vhost-iommu-support: optional string, either true or false
              vHost IOMMU is a security feature, which restricts the vhost memory that a virtio device may access. vHost IOMMU support is disabled by default,  due  to  a  bug  in  QEMU
              implementations  of  the  vhost  REPLY_ACK  protocol,  (on which vHost IOMMU relies) prior to v2.9.1. Setting this value to true enables vHost IOMMU support for vHost User
              Client ports in OvS-DPDK, starting from DPDK v17.11.

              Changing this value requires restarting the daemon.

       other_config : per-port-memory: optional string, either true or false
              By default OVS DPDK uses a shared memory model wherein devices that have the same MTU and socket values can share the same mempool. Setting this value to true changes this
              behaviour.  Per  port memory allow DPDK devices to use private memory per device. This can provide greater transparency as regards memory usage but potentially at the cost
              of greater memory requirements.

              Changing this value requires restarting the daemon if dpdk-init has already been set to true.

       other_config : tx-flush-interval: optional string, containing an integer, in range 0 to 1,000,000
              Specifies the time in microseconds that a packet can wait in output batch for sending i.e. amount of time that packet can spend in  an  intermediate  output  queue  before
              sending to netdev. This option can be used to configure balance between throughput and latency. Lower values decreases latency while higher values may be useful to achieve
              higher performance.

              Defaults to 0 i.e. instant packet sending (latency optimized).

       other_config : pmd-perf-metrics: optional string, either true or false
              Enables recording of detailed PMD performance metrics for analysis and trouble-shooting. This can have a performance impact in the order of 1%.

              Defaults to false but can be changed at any time.

       other_config : smc-enable: optional string, either true or false
              Signature match cache or SMC is a cache between EMC and megaflow cache. It does not store the full key of the flow, so it is more memory efficient comparing to EMC  cache.
              SMC is especially useful when flow count is larger than EMC capacity.

              Defaults to false but can be changed at any time.

       other_config : n-handler-threads: optional string, containing an integer, at least 1
              Specifies the number of threads for software datapaths to use for handling new flows. The default the number of online CPU cores minus the number of revalidators.

              This  configuration  is  per  datapath. If you have more than one software datapath (e.g. some system bridges and some netdev bridges), then the total number of threads is
              n-handler-threads times the number of software datapaths.

       other_config : n-revalidator-threads: optional string, containing an integer, at least 1
              Specifies the number of threads for software datapaths to use for revalidating flows in the datapath. Typically, there is a direct correlation between the number of reval-
              idator  threads, and the number of flows allowed in the datapath. The default is the number of cpu cores divided by four plus one. If n-handler-threads is set, the default
              changes to the number of cpu cores minus the number of handler threads.

              This configuration is per datapath. If you have more than one software datapath (e.g. some system bridges and some netdev bridges), then the total  number  of  threads  is
              n-handler-threads times the number of software datapaths.

       other_config : emc-insert-inv-prob: optional string, containing an integer, in range 0 to 4,294,967,295
              Specifies  the  inverse  probability (1/emc-insert-inv-prob) of a flow being inserted into the Exact Match Cache (EMC). On average one in every emc-insert-inv-prob packets
              that generate a unique flow will cause an insertion into the EMC. A value of 1 will result in an insertion for every flow (1/1 = 100%) whereas a value of zero will  result
              in no insertions and essentially disable the EMC.

              Defaults to 100 ie. there is (1/100 =) 1% chance of EMC insertion.

       other_config : vlan-limit: optional string, containing an integer, at least 0
              Limits the number of VLAN headers that can be matched to the specified number. Further VLAN headers will be treated as payload, e.g. a packet with more 802.1q headers will
              match Ethernet type 0x8100.

              Value 0 means unlimited. The actual number of supported VLAN headers is the smallest of vlan-limit, the number of VLANs supported by Open vSwitch userspace (currently  2),
              and the number supported by the datapath.

              If  this  value is absent, the default is currently 1. This maintains backward compatibility with controllers that were designed for use with Open vSwitch versions earlier
              than 2.8, which only supported one VLAN.

       other_config : bundle-idle-timeout: optional string, containing an integer, at least 1
              The maximum time (in seconds) that idle bundles will wait to be expired since it was either opened, modified or closed.

              OpenFlow specification mandates the timeout to be at least one second. The default is 10 seconds.

     Status:

       next_cfg: integer
              Sequence number for client to increment. When a client modifies any part of the database configuration and wishes to wait for Open vSwitch to finish applying the  changes,
              it may increment this sequence number.

       cur_cfg: integer
              Sequence number that Open vSwitch sets to the current value of next_cfg after it finishes applying a set of configuration changes.

       dpdk_initialized: boolean
              True if other_config:dpdk-init is set to true and the DPDK library is successfully initialized.

     Statistics:

       The  statistics  column  contains key-value pairs that report statistics about a system running an Open vSwitch. These are updated periodically (currently, every 5 seconds). Key-
       value pairs that cannot be determined or that do not apply to a platform are omitted.

       other_config : enable-statistics: optional string, either true or false
              Statistics are disabled by default to avoid overhead in the common case when statistics gathering is not useful. Set this value to true to enable populating the statistics
              column or to false to explicitly disable it.

       statistics : cpu: optional string, containing an integer, at least 1
              Number  of  CPU processors, threads, or cores currently online and available to the operating system on which Open vSwitch is running, as an integer. This may be less than
              the number installed, if some are not online or if they are not available to the operating system.

              Open vSwitch userspace processes are not multithreaded, but the Linux kernel-based datapath is.

       statistics : load_average: optional string
              A comma-separated list of three floating-point numbers, representing the system load average over the last 1, 5, and 15 minutes, respectively.

       statistics : memory: optional string
              A comma-separated list of integers, each of which represents a quantity of memory in kilobytes that describes the operating system on which Open  vSwitch  is  running.  In
              respective order, these values are:

              1.
                Total amount of RAM allocated to the OS.

              2.
                RAM allocated to the OS that is in use.

              3.
                RAM  that  can  be  flushed out to disk or otherwise discarded if that space is needed for another purpose. This number is necessarily less than or equal to the previous
                value.

              4.
                Total disk space allocated for swap.

              5.
                Swap space currently in use.

              On Linux, all five values can be determined and are included. On other operating systems, only the first two values can be determined, so the list will only have two  val-
              ues.

       statistics : process_NAME: optional string
              One  such  key-value  pair,  with  NAME  replaced by a process name, will exist for each running Open vSwitch daemon process, with name replaced by the daemon's name (e.g.
              process_ovs-vswitchd). The value is a comma-separated list of integers. The integers represent the following, with memory measured in kilobytes and durations in  millisec-
              onds:

              1.
                The process's virtual memory size.

              2.
                The process's resident set size.

              3.
                The amount of user and system CPU time consumed by the process.

              4.
                The number of times that the process has crashed and been automatically restarted by the monitor.

              5.
                The duration since the process was started.

              6.
                The duration for which the process has been running.

              The  interpretation of some of these values depends on whether the process was started with the --monitor. If it was not, then the crash count will always be 0 and the two
              durations will always be the same. If --monitor was given, then the crash count may be positive; if it is, the latter duration is the amount of time since the most  recent
              crash and restart.

              There will be one key-value pair for each file in Open vSwitch's ``run directory'' (usually /var/run/openvswitch) whose name ends in .pid, whose contents are a process ID,
              and which is locked by a running process. The name is taken from the pidfile's name.

              Currently Open vSwitch is only able to obtain all of the above detail on Linux systems. On other systems, the same key-value pairs will be  present  but  the  values  will
              always be the empty string.

       statistics : file_systems: optional string
              A  space-separated  list  of information on local, writable file systems. Each item in the list describes one file system and consists in turn of a comma-separated list of
              the following:

              1.
                Mount point, e.g. / or /var/log. Any spaces or commas in the mount point are replaced by underscores.

              2.
                Total size, in kilobytes, as an integer.

              3.
                Amount of storage in use, in kilobytes, as an integer.

              This key-value pair is omitted if there are no local, writable file systems or if Open vSwitch cannot obtain the needed information.

     Version Reporting:

       These columns report the types and versions of the hardware and software running Open vSwitch. We recommend in general that software should test  whether  specific  features  are
       supported instead of relying on version number checks. These values are primarily intended for reporting to human administrators.

       ovs_version: optional string
              The Open vSwitch version number, e.g. 1.1.0.

       db_version: optional string
              The database schema version number, e.g. 1.2.3. See ovsdb-tool(1) for an explanation of the numbering scheme.

              The schema version is part of the database schema, so it can also be retrieved by fetching the schema using the Open vSwitch database protocol.

       system_type: optional string
              An identifier for the type of system on top of which Open vSwitch runs, e.g. XenServer or KVM.

              System integrators are responsible for choosing and setting an appropriate value for this column.

       system_version: optional string
              The version of the system identified by system_type, e.g. 5.6.100-39265p on XenServer 5.6.100 build 39265.

              System integrators are responsible for choosing and setting an appropriate value for this column.

       dpdk_version: optional string
              The version of the linked DPDK library.

     Capabilities:

       These columns report capabilities of the Open vSwitch instance.

       datapath_types: set of strings
              This column reports the different dpifs registered with the system. These are the values that this instance supports in the datapath_type column of the Bridge table.

       iface_types: set of strings
              This column reports the different netdevs registered with the system. These are the values that this instance supports in the type column of the Interface table.

     Database Configuration:

       These columns primarily configure the Open vSwitch database (ovsdb-server), not the Open vSwitch switch (ovs-vswitchd). The OVSDB database also uses the ssl settings.

       The Open vSwitch switch does read the database configuration to determine remote IP addresses to which in-band control should apply.

       manager_options: set of Managers
              Database  clients to which the Open vSwitch database server should connect or to which it should listen, along with options for how these connections should be configured.
              See the Manager table for more information.

              For this column to serve its purpose,  ovsdb-server  must  be  configured  to  honor  it.  The  easiest  way  to  do  this  is  to  invoke  ovsdb-server  with  the  option
              --remote=db:Open_vSwitch,Open_vSwitch,manager_options The startup scripts that accompany Open vSwitch do this by default.

     Common Columns:

       The overall purpose of these columns is described under Common Columns at the beginning of this document.

       other_config: map of string-string pairs

       external_ids: map of string-string pairs

