Controller TABLE
       An OpenFlow controller.

       Open vSwitch supports two kinds of OpenFlow controllers:

              Primary controllers
                     This  is  the  kind  of  controller  envisioned by the OpenFlow 1.0 specification. Usually, a primary controller implements a network policy by taking charge of the
                     switch's flow table.

                     Open vSwitch initiates and maintains persistent connections to primary controllers, retrying the connection each time it fails or drops. The fail_mode column in the
                     Bridge table applies to primary controllers.

                     Open  vSwitch  permits a bridge to have any number of primary controllers. When multiple controllers are configured, Open vSwitch connects to all of them simultane-
                     ously. Because OpenFlow 1.0 does not specify how multiple controllers coordinate in interacting with a single switch, more than one  primary  controller  should  be
                     specified  only  if  the controllers are themselves designed to coordinate with each other. (The Nicira-defined NXT_ROLE OpenFlow vendor extension may be useful for
                     this.)

              Service controllers
                     These kinds of OpenFlow controller connections are intended for occasional support and maintenance use, e.g. with ovs-ofctl. Usually a service  controller  connects
                     only briefly to inspect or modify some of a switch's state.

                     Open vSwitch listens for incoming connections from service controllers. The service controllers initiate and, if necessary, maintain the connections from their end.
                     The fail_mode column in the Bridge table does not apply to service controllers.

                     Open vSwitch supports configuring any number of service controllers.

       The target determines the type of controller.

   Summary:
       Core Features:
         target                      string
         connection_mode             optional string, either in-band or out-of-band
       Controller Failure Detection and Handling:
         max_backoff                 optional integer, at least 1,000
         inactivity_probe            optional integer
       Asynchronous Messages:
         enable_async_messages       optional boolean
         Controller Rate Limiting:
            controller_rate_limit    optional integer, at least 100
            controller_burst_limit   optional integer, at least 25
            Controller Rate Limiting Statistics:
              status : packet-in-TYPE-bypassed
                                     optional string, containing an integer, at least 0
              status : packet-in-TYPE-queued
                                     optional string, containing an integer, at least 0
              status : packet-in-TYPE-dropped
                                     optional string, containing an integer, at least 0
              status : packet-in-TYPE-backlog
                                     optional string, containing an integer, at least 0
       Additional In-Band Configuration:
         local_ip                    optional string
         local_netmask               optional string
         local_gateway               optional string
       Controller Status:
         is_connected                boolean
         role                        optional string, one of master, other, or slave
         status : last_error         optional string
         status : state              optional string, one of ACTIVE, BACKOFF, CONNECTING, IDLE, or VOID
         status : sec_since_connect  optional string, containing an integer, at least 0
         status : sec_since_disconnect
                                     optional string, containing an integer, at least 1
       Connection Parameters:
         other_config : dscp         optional string, containing an integer
       Common Columns:
         external_ids                map of string-string pairs
         other_config                map of string-string pairs

   Details:
     Core Features:

       target: string
              Connection method for controller.

              The following connection methods are currently supported for primary controllers:

              ssl:host[:port]
                     The specified SSL port on the host at the given host, which can either be a DNS name (if built with unbound library) or  an  IP  address.  The  ssl  column  in  the
                     Open_vSwitch table must point to a valid SSL configuration when this form is used.

                     If port is not specified, it defaults to 6653.

                     SSL support is an optional feature that is not always built as part of Open vSwitch.

              tcp:host[:port]
                     The  specified TCP port on the host at the given host, which can either be a DNS name (if built with unbound library) or an IP address (IPv4 or IPv6). If host is an
                     IPv6 address, wrap it in square brackets, e.g. tcp:[::1]:6653.

                     If port is not specified, it defaults to 6653.

              The following connection methods are currently supported for service controllers:

              pssl:[port][:host]
                     Listens for SSL connections on the specified TCP port. If host, which can either be a DNS name (if built with unbound library) or an IP address, is specified,  then
                     connections  are  restricted  to  the  resolved  or  specified  local IP address (either IPv4 or IPv6). If host is an IPv6 address, wrap it in square brackets, e.g.
                     pssl:6653:[::1].

                     If port is not specified, it defaults to 6653. If host is not specified then it listens only on IPv4 (but not IPv6) addresses. The ssl column  in  the  Open_vSwitch
                     table must point to a valid SSL configuration when this form is used.

                     If port is not specified, it currently to 6653.

                     SSL support is an optional feature that is not always built as part of Open vSwitch.

              ptcp:[port][:host]
                     Listens for connections on the specified TCP port. If host, which can either be a DNS name (if built with unbound library) or an IP address, is specified, then con-
                     nections are restricted to the resolved or specified local IP address (either IPv4 or IPv6). If  host  is  an  IPv6  address,  wrap  it  in  square  brackets,  e.g.
                     ptcp:6653:[::1]. If host is not specified then it listens only on IPv4 addresses.

                     If port is not specified, it defaults to 6653.

              When multiple controllers are configured for a single bridge, the target values must be unique. Duplicate target values yield unspecified results.

       connection_mode: optional string, either in-band or out-of-band
              If it is specified, this setting must be one of the following strings that describes how Open vSwitch contacts this OpenFlow controller over the network:

              in-band
                     In  this mode, this controller's OpenFlow traffic travels over the bridge associated with the controller. With this setting, Open vSwitch allows traffic to and from
                     the controller regardless of the contents of the OpenFlow flow table. (Otherwise, Open vSwitch would never be able to connect to the controller, because it did  not
                     have a flow to enable it.) This is the most common connection mode because it is not necessary to maintain two independent networks.

              out-of-band
                     In this mode, OpenFlow traffic uses a control network separate from the bridge associated with this controller, that is, the bridge does not use any of its own net-
                     work devices to communicate with the controller. The control network must be configured separately, before or after ovs-vswitchd is started.

              If not specified, the default is implementation-specific.

     Controller Failure Detection and Handling:

       max_backoff: optional integer, at least 1,000
              Maximum number of milliseconds to wait between connection attempts. Default is implementation-specific.

       inactivity_probe: optional integer
              Maximum number of milliseconds of idle time on connection to controller before sending an inactivity probe message. If Open vSwitch does  not  communicate  with  the  con-
              troller  for  the specified number of seconds, it will send a probe. If a response is not received for the same additional amount of time, Open vSwitch assumes the connec-
              tion has been broken and attempts to reconnect. Default is implementation-specific. A value of 0 disables inactivity probes.

     Asynchronous Messages:

       OpenFlow switches send certain messages to controllers spontanenously, that is, not in response to any request from the controller. These messages are called ``asynchronous  mes-
       sages.'' These columns allow asynchronous messages to be limited or disabled to ensure the best use of network resources.

       enable_async_messages: optional boolean
              The  OpenFlow protocol enables asynchronous messages at time of connection establishment, which means that a controller can receive asynchronous messages, potentially many
              of them, even if it turns them off immediately after connecting. Set this column to false to change Open vSwitch behavior to disable, by  default,  all  asynchronous  mes-
              sages. The controller can use the NXT_SET_ASYNC_CONFIG Nicira extension to OpenFlow to turn on any messages that it does want to receive, if any.

     Controller Rate Limiting:

       A  switch can forward packets to a controller over the OpenFlow protocol. Forwarding packets this way at too high a rate can overwhelm a controller, frustrate use of the OpenFlow
       connection for other purposes, increase the latency of flow setup, and use an unreasonable amount of bandwidth. Therefore, Open vSwitch supports limiting the rate of packet  for-
       warding to a controller.

       There  are two main reasons in OpenFlow for a packet to be sent to a controller: either the packet ``misses'' in the flow table, that is, there is no matching flow, or a flow ta-
       ble action says to send the packet to the controller. Open vSwitch limits the rate of each kind of packet separately at the configured rate. Therefore, the actual rate that pack-
       ets are sent to the controller can be up to twice the configured rate, when packets are sent for both reasons.

       This  feature  is  specific  to  forwarding  packets  over  an  OpenFlow  connection.  It  is not general-purpose QoS. See the QoS table for quality of service configuration, and
       ingress_policing_rate in the Interface table for ingress policing configuration.

       controller_rate_limit: optional integer, at least 100
              The maximum rate at which the switch will forward packets to the OpenFlow controller, in packets per second. If no value is specified, rate limiting is disabled.

       controller_burst_limit: optional integer, at least 25
              When a high rate triggers rate-limiting, Open vSwitch queues packets to the controller for each port and transmits them to the controller  at  the  configured  rate.  This
              value limits the number of queued packets. Ports on a bridge share the packet queue fairly.

              This  value has no effect unless controller_rate_limit is configured. The current default when this value is not specified is one-quarter of controller_rate_limit, meaning
              that queuing can delay forwarding a packet to the controller by up to 250 ms.

     Controller Rate Limiting Statistics:

       These values report the effects of rate limiting. Their values are relative to establishment of the most recent OpenFlow connection, or since rate limiting was enabled, whichever
       happened  more recently. Each consists of two values, one with TYPE replaced by miss for rate limiting flow table misses, and the other with TYPE replaced by action for rate lim-
       iting packets sent by OpenFlow actions.

       These statistics are reported only when controller rate limiting is enabled.

       status : packet-in-TYPE-bypassed: optional string, containing an integer, at least 0
              Number of packets sent directly to the controller, without queuing, because the rate did not exceed the configured maximum.

       status : packet-in-TYPE-queued: optional string, containing an integer, at least 0
              Number of packets added to the queue to send later.

       status : packet-in-TYPE-dropped: optional string, containing an integer, at least 0
              Number of packets added to the queue that were later dropped due to overflow. This value is less than or equal to status:packet-in-TYPE-queued.

       status : packet-in-TYPE-backlog: optional string, containing an integer, at least 0
              Number of packets currently queued. The other statistics increase monotonically, but this one fluctuates between 0 and the controller_burst_limit as conditions change.

     Additional In-Band Configuration:

       These values are considered only in in-band control mode (see connection_mode).

       When multiple controllers are configured on a single bridge, there should be only one set of unique values in these columns. If different values are set for these columns in dif-
       ferent controllers, the effect is unspecified.

       local_ip: optional string
              The IP address to configure on the local port, e.g. 192.168.0.123. If this value is unset, then local_netmask and local_gateway are ignored.

       local_netmask: optional string
              The  IP  netmask to configure on the local port, e.g. 255.255.255.0. If local_ip is set but this value is unset, then the default is chosen based on whether the IP address
              is class A, B, or C.

       local_gateway: optional string
              The IP address of the gateway to configure on the local port, as a string, e.g. 192.168.0.1. Leave this column unset if this network has no gateway.

     Controller Status:

       is_connected: boolean
              true if currently connected to this controller, false otherwise.

       role: optional string, one of master, other, or slave
              The level of authority this controller has on the associated bridge. Possible values are:

              other  Allows the controller access to all OpenFlow features.

              master Equivalent to other, except that there may be at most one master controller at a time. When a controller configures itself as master, any existing master is demoted
                     to the slave role.

              slave  Allows  the  controller  read-only  access  to OpenFlow features. Attempts to modify the flow table will be rejected with an error. Slave controllers do not receive
                     OFPT_PACKET_IN or OFPT_FLOW_REMOVED messages, but they do receive OFPT_PORT_STATUS messages.

       status : last_error: optional string
              A human-readable description of the last error on the connection to the controller; i.e. strerror(errno). This key will exist only if an error has occurred.

       status : state: optional string, one of ACTIVE, BACKOFF, CONNECTING, IDLE, or VOID
              The state of the connection to the controller:

              VOID   Connection is disabled.

              BACKOFF
                     Attempting to reconnect at an increasing period.

              CONNECTING
                     Attempting to connect.

              ACTIVE Connected, remote host responsive.

              IDLE   Connection is idle. Waiting for response to keep-alive.

              These values may change in the future. They are provided only for human consumption.

       status : sec_since_connect: optional string, containing an integer, at least 0
              The amount of time since this controller last successfully connected to the switch (in seconds). Value is empty if controller has never successfully connected.

       status : sec_since_disconnect: optional string, containing an integer, at least 1
              The amount of time since this controller last disconnected from the switch (in seconds). Value is empty if controller has never disconnected.

     Connection Parameters:

       Additional configuration for a connection between the controller and the Open vSwitch.

       other_config : dscp: optional string, containing an integer
              The Differentiated Service Code Point (DSCP) is specified using 6 bits in the Type of Service (TOS) field in the IP header. DSCP provides a mechanism to classify the  net-
              work  traffic  and  provide  Quality of Service (QoS) on IP networks. The DSCP value specified here is used when establishing the connection between the controller and the
              Open vSwitch. If no value is specified, a default value of 48 is chosen. Valid DSCP values must be in the range 0 to 63.

     Common Columns:

       The overall purpose of these columns is described under Common Columns at the beginning of this document.

       external_ids: map of string-string pairs

       other_config: map of string-string pairs

