Manager TABLE
       Configuration for a database connection to an Open vSwitch database (OVSDB) client.

       This table primarily configures the Open vSwitch database (ovsdb-server), not the Open vSwitch switch (ovs-vswitchd). The switch does read the table to determine what connections
       should be treated as in-band.

       The Open vSwitch database server can initiate and maintain active connections to remote clients. It can also listen for database connections.

   Summary:
       Core Features:
         target                      string (must be unique within table)
         connection_mode             optional string, either in-band or out-of-band
       Client Failure Detection and Handling:
         max_backoff                 optional integer, at least 1,000
         inactivity_probe            optional integer
       Status:
         is_connected                boolean
         status : last_error         optional string
         status : state              optional string, one of ACTIVE, BACKOFF, CONNECTING, IDLE, or VOID
         status : sec_since_connect  optional string, containing an integer, at least 0
         status : sec_since_disconnect
                                     optional string, containing an integer, at least 0
         status : locks_held         optional string
         status : locks_waiting      optional string
         status : locks_lost         optional string
         status : n_connections      optional string, containing an integer, at least 2
         status : bound_port         optional string, containing an integer
       Connection Parameters:
         other_config : dscp         optional string, containing an integer
       Common Columns:
         external_ids                map of string-string pairs
         other_config                map of string-string pairs

   Details:
     Core Features:

       target: string (must be unique within table)
              Connection method for managers.

              The following connection methods are currently supported:

              ssl:host[:port]
                     The  specified  SSL  port  on  the  host  at  the given host, which can either be a DNS name (if built with unbound library) or an IP address. The ssl column in the
                     Open_vSwitch table must point to a valid SSL configuration when this form is used.

                     If port is not specified, it defaults to 6640.

                     SSL support is an optional feature that is not always built as part of Open vSwitch.

              tcp:host[:port]
                     The specified TCP port on the host at the given host, which can either be a DNS name (if built with unbound library) or an IP address (IPv4 or IPv6). If host is  an
                     IPv6 address, wrap it in square brackets, e.g. tcp:[::1]:6640.

                     If port is not specified, it defaults to 6640.

              pssl:[port][:host]
                     Listens  for SSL connections on the specified TCP port. Specify 0 for port to have the kernel automatically choose an available port. If host, which can either be a
                     DNS name (if built with unbound library) or an IP address, is specified, then connections are restricted to the resolved or specified local IP address (either  IPv4
                     or  IPv6  address).  If host is an IPv6 address, wrap in square brackets, e.g. pssl:6640:[::1]. If host is not specified then it listens only on IPv4 (but not IPv6)
                     addresses. The ssl column in the Open_vSwitch table must point to a valid SSL configuration when this form is used.

                     If port is not specified, it defaults to 6640.

                     SSL support is an optional feature that is not always built as part of Open vSwitch.

              ptcp:[port][:host]
                     Listens for connections on the specified TCP port. Specify 0 for port to have the kernel automatically choose an available port. If host, which can either be a  DNS
                     name  (if  built with unbound library) or an IP address, is specified, then connections are restricted to the resolved or specified local IP address (either IPv4 or
                     IPv6 address). If host is an IPv6 address, wrap it in square brackets, e.g. ptcp:6640:[::1]. If host is not specified then it listens only on IPv4 addresses.

                     If port is not specified, it defaults to 6640.

              When multiple managers are configured, the target values must be unique. Duplicate target values yield unspecified results.

       connection_mode: optional string, either in-band or out-of-band
              If it is specified, this setting must be one of the following strings that describes how Open vSwitch contacts this OVSDB client over the network:

              in-band
                     In this mode, this connection's traffic travels over a bridge managed by Open vSwitch. With this setting, Open vSwitch allows traffic to and from the client regard-
                     less  of  the  contents  of the OpenFlow flow table. (Otherwise, Open vSwitch would never be able to connect to the client, because it did not have a flow to enable
                     it.) This is the most common connection mode because it is not necessary to maintain two independent networks.

              out-of-band
                     In this mode, the client's traffic uses a control network separate from that managed by Open vSwitch, that is, Open vSwitch does not use  any  of  its  own  network
                     devices to communicate with the client. The control network must be configured separately, before or after ovs-vswitchd is started.

              If not specified, the default is implementation-specific.

     Client Failure Detection and Handling:

       max_backoff: optional integer, at least 1,000
              Maximum number of milliseconds to wait between connection attempts. Default is implementation-specific.

       inactivity_probe: optional integer
              Maximum  number  of  milliseconds of idle time on connection to the client before sending an inactivity probe message. If Open vSwitch does not communicate with the client
              for the specified number of seconds, it will send a probe. If a response is not received for the same additional amount of time, Open vSwitch assumes  the  connection  has
              been broken and attempts to reconnect. Default is implementation-specific. A value of 0 disables inactivity probes.

     Status:

       Key-value pair of is_connected is always updated. Other key-value pairs in the status columns may be updated depends on the target type.

       When target specifies a connection method that listens for inbound connections (e.g. ptcp: or punix:), both n_connections and is_connected may also be updated while the remaining
       key-value pairs are omitted.

       On the other hand, when target specifies an outbound connection, all key-value pairs may be updated, except the above-mentioned two key-value pairs associated with  inbound  con-
       nection targets. They are omitted.

       is_connected: boolean
              true if currently connected to this manager, false otherwise.

       status : last_error: optional string
              A human-readable description of the last error on the connection to the manager; i.e. strerror(errno). This key will exist only if an error has occurred.

       status : state: optional string, one of ACTIVE, BACKOFF, CONNECTING, IDLE, or VOID
              The state of the connection to the manager:

              VOID   Connection is disabled.

              BACKOFF
                     Attempting to reconnect at an increasing period.

              CONNECTING
                     Attempting to connect.

              ACTIVE Connected, remote host responsive.

              IDLE   Connection is idle. Waiting for response to keep-alive.

              These values may change in the future. They are provided only for human consumption.

       status : sec_since_connect: optional string, containing an integer, at least 0
              The amount of time since this manager last successfully connected to the database (in seconds). Value is empty if manager has never successfully connected.

       status : sec_since_disconnect: optional string, containing an integer, at least 0
              The amount of time since this manager last disconnected from the database (in seconds). Value is empty if manager has never disconnected.

       status : locks_held: optional string
              Space-separated list of the names of OVSDB locks that the connection holds. Omitted if the connection does not hold any locks.

       status : locks_waiting: optional string
              Space-separated list of the names of OVSDB locks that the connection is currently waiting to acquire. Omitted if the connection is not waiting for any locks.

       status : locks_lost: optional string
              Space-separated list of the names of OVSDB locks that the connection has had stolen by another OVSDB client. Omitted if no locks have been stolen from this connection.

       status : n_connections: optional string, containing an integer, at least 2
              When target specifies a connection method that listens for inbound connections (e.g. ptcp: or pssl:) and more than one connection is actually active, the value is the num-
              ber of active connections. Otherwise, this key-value pair is omitted.

       status : bound_port: optional string, containing an integer
              When target is ptcp: or pssl:, this is the TCP port on which the OVSDB server is listening. (This is particularly useful when target specifies a port of  0,  allowing  the
              kernel to choose any available port.)

     Connection Parameters:

       Additional configuration for a connection between the manager and the Open vSwitch Database.

       other_config : dscp: optional string, containing an integer
              The  Differentiated Service Code Point (DSCP) is specified using 6 bits in the Type of Service (TOS) field in the IP header. DSCP provides a mechanism to classify the net-
              work traffic and provide Quality of Service (QoS) on IP networks. The DSCP value specified here is used when establishing the connection between the manager and  the  Open
              vSwitch. If no value is specified, a default value of 48 is chosen. Valid DSCP values must be in the range 0 to 63.

     Common Columns:

       The overall purpose of these columns is described under Common Columns at the beginning of this document.

       external_ids: map of string-string pairs

       other_config: map of string-string pairs

