AutoAttach TABLE
       Auto Attach configuration within a bridge. The IETF Auto-Attach SPBM draft standard describes a compact method of using IEEE 802.1AB Link Layer Discovery Protocol (LLDP) together
       with  a  IEEE  802.1aq  Shortest  Path Bridging (SPB) network to automatically attach network devices to individual services in a SPB network. The intent here is to allow network
       applications and devices using OVS to be able to easily take advantage of features offered by industry standard SPB networks.

       Auto Attach (AA) uses LLDP to communicate between a directly connected Auto Attach Client (AAC) and Auto Attach Server (AAS). The LLDP protocol is extended to add two  new  Type-
       Length-Value  tuples (TLVs). The first new TLV supports the ongoing discovery of directly connected AA correspondents. Auto Attach operates by regularly transmitting AA discovery
       TLVs between the AA client and AA server. By exchanging these discovery messages, both the AAC and AAS learn the system name and system description of their peer. In the OVS con-
       text, OVS operates as the AA client and the AA server resides on a switch at the edge of the SPB network.

       Once  AA  discovery has been completed the AAC then uses the second new TLV to deliver identifier mappings from the AAC to the AAS. A primary feature of Auto Attach is to facili-
       tate the mapping of VLANs defined outside the SPB network onto service ids (ISIDs) defined within the SPM network. By doing so individual external VLANs can be mapped  onto  spe-
       cific SPB network services. These VLAN id to ISID mappings can be configured and managed locally using new options added to the ovs-vsctl command.

       The Auto Attach OVS feature does not provide a full implementation of the LLDP protocol. Support for the mandatory TLVs as defined by the LLDP standard and support for the AA TLV
       extensions is provided. LLDP protocol support in OVS can be enabled or disabled on a port by port basis. LLDP support is disabled by default.

   Summary:
       system_name                   string
       system_description            string
       mappings                      map of integer-integer pairs, key in range 0 to 16,777,215, value in range 0 to 4,095

   Details:
       system_name: string
              The system_name string is exported in LLDP messages. It should uniquely identify the bridge in the network.

       system_description: string
              The system_description string is exported in LLDP messages. It should describe the type of software and hardware.

       mappings: map of integer-integer pairs, key in range 0 to 16,777,215, value in range 0 to 4,095
              A mapping from SPB network Individual Service Identifier (ISID) to VLAN id.

Open vSwitch 2.10.1                                                                  DB Schema 7.16.1                                                             ovs-vswitchd.conf.db(5)
