VACUUM(7)                                   PostgreSQL 12.7 Documentation                                   VACUUM(7)

NAME
       VACUUM - garbage-collect and optionally analyze a database

SYNOPSIS
       VACUUM [ ( option [, ...] ) ] [ table_and_columns [, ...] ]
       VACUUM [ FULL ] [ FREEZE ] [ VERBOSE ] [ ANALYZE ] [ table_and_columns [, ...] ]

       where option can be one of:

           FULL [ boolean ]
           FREEZE [ boolean ]
           VERBOSE [ boolean ]
           ANALYZE [ boolean ]
           DISABLE_PAGE_SKIPPING [ boolean ]
           SKIP_LOCKED [ boolean ]
           INDEX_CLEANUP [ boolean ]
           TRUNCATE [ boolean ]

       and table_and_columns is:

           table_name [ ( column_name [, ...] ) ]

DESCRIPTION
       VACUUM reclaims storage occupied by dead tuples. In normal PostgreSQL operation, tuples that are deleted or
       obsoleted by an update are not physically removed from their table; they remain present until a VACUUM is
       done. Therefore it's necessary to do VACUUM periodically, especially on frequently-updated tables.

       Without a table_and_columns list, VACUUM processes every table and materialized view in the current database
       that the current user has permission to vacuum. With a list, VACUUM processes only those table(s).

       VACUUM ANALYZE performs a VACUUM and then an ANALYZE for each selected table. This is a handy combination form
       for routine maintenance scripts. See ANALYZE(7) for more details about its processing.

       Plain VACUUM (without FULL) simply reclaims space and makes it available for re-use. This form of the command
       can operate in parallel with normal reading and writing of the table, as an exclusive lock is not obtained.
       However, extra space is not returned to the operating system (in most cases); it's just kept available for
       re-use within the same table.  VACUUM FULL rewrites the entire contents of the table into a new disk file with
       no extra space, allowing unused space to be returned to the operating system. This form is much slower and
       requires an ACCESS EXCLUSIVE lock on each table while it is being processed.

       When the option list is surrounded by parentheses, the options can be written in any order. Without
       parentheses, options must be specified in exactly the order shown above. The parenthesized syntax was added in
       PostgreSQL 9.0; the unparenthesized syntax is deprecated.

PARAMETERS
       FULL
           Selects "full" vacuum, which can reclaim more space, but takes much longer and exclusively locks the
           table. This method also requires extra disk space, since it writes a new copy of the table and doesn't
           release the old copy until the operation is complete. Usually this should only be used when a significant
           amount of space needs to be reclaimed from within the table.

       FREEZE
           Selects aggressive "freezing" of tuples. Specifying FREEZE is equivalent to performing VACUUM with the
           vacuum_freeze_min_age and vacuum_freeze_table_age parameters set to zero. Aggressive freezing is always
           performed when the table is rewritten, so this option is redundant when FULL is specified.

       VERBOSE
           Prints a detailed vacuum activity report for each table.

       ANALYZE
           Updates statistics used by the planner to determine the most efficient way to execute a query.

       DISABLE_PAGE_SKIPPING
           Normally, VACUUM will skip pages based on the visibility map. Pages where all tuples are known to be
           frozen can always be skipped, and those where all tuples are known to be visible to all transactions may
           be skipped except when performing an aggressive vacuum. Furthermore, except when performing an aggressive
           vacuum, some pages may be skipped in order to avoid waiting for other sessions to finish using them. This
           option disables all page-skipping behavior, and is intended to be used only when the contents of the
           visibility map are suspect, which should happen only if there is a hardware or software issue causing
           database corruption.

       SKIP_LOCKED
           Specifies that VACUUM should not wait for any conflicting locks to be released when beginning work on a
           relation: if a relation cannot be locked immediately without waiting, the relation is skipped. Note that
           even with this option, VACUUM may still block when opening the relation's indexes. Additionally, VACUUM
           ANALYZE may still block when acquiring sample rows from partitions, table inheritance children, and some
           types of foreign tables. Also, while VACUUM ordinarily processes all partitions of specified partitioned
           tables, this option will cause VACUUM to skip all partitions if there is a conflicting lock on the
           partitioned table.

       INDEX_CLEANUP
           Specifies that VACUUM should attempt to remove index entries pointing to dead tuples. This is normally the
           desired behavior and is the default unless the vacuum_index_cleanup option has been set to false for the
           table to be vacuumed. Setting this option to false may be useful when it is necessary to make vacuum run
           as quickly as possible, for example to avoid imminent transaction ID wraparound (see Section 24.1.5).
           However, if index cleanup is not performed regularly, performance may suffer, because as the table is
           modified, indexes will accumulate dead tuples and the table itself will accumulate dead line pointers that
           cannot be removed until index cleanup is completed. This option has no effect for tables that do not have
           an index and is ignored if the FULL option is used.

       TRUNCATE
           Specifies that VACUUM should attempt to truncate off any empty pages at the end of the table and allow the
           disk space for the truncated pages to be returned to the operating system. This is normally the desired
           behavior and is the default unless the vacuum_truncate option has been set to false for the table to be
           vacuumed. Setting this option to false may be useful to avoid ACCESS EXCLUSIVE lock on the table that the
           truncation requires. This option is ignored if the FULL option is used.

       boolean
           Specifies whether the selected option should be turned on or off. You can write TRUE, ON, or 1 to enable
           the option, and FALSE, OFF, or 0 to disable it. The boolean value can also be omitted, in which case TRUE
           is assumed.

       table_name
           The name (optionally schema-qualified) of a specific table or materialized view to vacuum. If the
           specified table is a partitioned table, all of its leaf partitions are vacuumed.

       column_name
           The name of a specific column to analyze. Defaults to all columns. If a column list is specified, ANALYZE
           must also be specified.

OUTPUTS
       When VERBOSE is specified, VACUUM emits progress messages to indicate which table is currently being
       processed. Various statistics about the tables are printed as well.

NOTES
       To vacuum a table, one must ordinarily be the table's owner or a superuser. However, database owners are
       allowed to vacuum all tables in their databases, except shared catalogs. (The restriction for shared catalogs
       means that a true database-wide VACUUM can only be performed by a superuser.)  VACUUM will skip over any
       tables that the calling user does not have permission to vacuum.

       VACUUM cannot be executed inside a transaction block.

       For tables with GIN indexes, VACUUM (in any form) also completes any pending index insertions, by moving
       pending index entries to the appropriate places in the main GIN index structure. See Section 66.4.1 for
       details.

       We recommend that active production databases be vacuumed frequently (at least nightly), in order to remove
       dead rows. After adding or deleting a large number of rows, it might be a good idea to issue a VACUUM ANALYZE
       command for the affected table. This will update the system catalogs with the results of all recent changes,
       and allow the PostgreSQL query planner to make better choices in planning queries.

       The FULL option is not recommended for routine use, but might be useful in special cases. An example is when
       you have deleted or updated most of the rows in a table and would like the table to physically shrink to
       occupy less disk space and allow faster table scans.  VACUUM FULL will usually shrink the table more than a
       plain VACUUM would.

       VACUUM causes a substantial increase in I/O traffic, which might cause poor performance for other active
       sessions. Therefore, it is sometimes advisable to use the cost-based vacuum delay feature. See Section 19.4.4
       for details.

       PostgreSQL includes an "autovacuum" facility which can automate routine vacuum maintenance. For more
       information about automatic and manual vacuuming, see Section 24.1.

EXAMPLES
       To clean a single table onek, analyze it for the optimizer and print a detailed vacuum activity report:

           VACUUM (VERBOSE, ANALYZE) onek;

COMPATIBILITY
       There is no VACUUM statement in the SQL standard.

SEE ALSO
       vacuumdb(1), Section 19.4.4, Section 24.1.6

PostgreSQL 12.7                                          2021                                               VACUUM(7)
