VACUUMDB(1)                                 PostgreSQL 12.7 Documentation                                 VACUUMDB(1)

NAME
       vacuumdb - garbage-collect and analyze a PostgreSQL database

SYNOPSIS
       vacuumdb [connection-option...] [option...] [ -t | --table table [( column [,...] )] ]...  [dbname]

       vacuumdb [connection-option...] [option...] -a | --all

DESCRIPTION
       vacuumdb is a utility for cleaning a PostgreSQL database.  vacuumdb will also generate internal statistics
       used by the PostgreSQL query optimizer.

       vacuumdb is a wrapper around the SQL command VACUUM(7). There is no effective difference between vacuuming and
       analyzing databases via this utility and via other methods for accessing the server.

OPTIONS
       vacuumdb accepts the following command-line arguments:

       -a
       --all
           Vacuum all databases.

       [-d] dbname
       [--dbname=]dbname
           Specifies the name of the database to be cleaned or analyzed, when -a/--all is not used. If this is not
           specified, the database name is read from the environment variable PGDATABASE. If that is not set, the
           user name specified for the connection is used. The dbname can be a connection string. If so, connection
           string parameters will override any conflicting command line options.

       --disable-page-skipping
           Disable skipping pages based on the contents of the visibility map.

               Note
               This option is only available for servers running PostgreSQL 9.6 and later.

       -e
       --echo
           Echo the commands that vacuumdb generates and sends to the server.

       -f
       --full
           Perform "full" vacuuming.

       -F
       --freeze
           Aggressively "freeze" tuples.

       -j njobs
       --jobs=njobs
           Execute the vacuum or analyze commands in parallel by running njobs commands simultaneously. This option
           reduces the time of the processing but it also increases the load on the database server.

           vacuumdb will open njobs connections to the database, so make sure your max_connections setting is high
           enough to accommodate all connections.

           Note that using this mode together with the -f (FULL) option might cause deadlock failures if certain
           system catalogs are processed in parallel.

       --min-mxid-age mxid_age
           Only execute the vacuum or analyze commands on tables with a multixact ID age of at least mxid_age. This
           setting is useful for prioritizing tables to process to prevent multixact ID wraparound (see
           Section 24.1.5.1).

           For the purposes of this option, the multixact ID age of a relation is the greatest of the ages of the
           main relation and its associated TOAST table, if one exists. Since the commands issued by vacuumdb will
           also process the TOAST table for the relation if necessary, it does not need to be considered separately.

               Note
               This option is only available for servers running PostgreSQL 9.6 and later.

       --min-xid-age xid_age
           Only execute the vacuum or analyze commands on tables with a transaction ID age of at least xid_age. This
           setting is useful for prioritizing tables to process to prevent transaction ID wraparound (see
           Section 24.1.5).

           For the purposes of this option, the transaction ID age of a relation is the greatest of the ages of the
           main relation and its associated TOAST table, if one exists. Since the commands issued by vacuumdb will
           also process the TOAST table for the relation if necessary, it does not need to be considered separately.

               Note
               This option is only available for servers running PostgreSQL 9.6 and later.

       -q
       --quiet
           Do not display progress messages.

       --skip-locked
           Skip relations that cannot be immediately locked for processing.

               Note
               This option is only available for servers running PostgreSQL 12 and later.

       -t table [ (column [,...]) ]
       --table=table [ (column [,...]) ]
           Clean or analyze table only. Column names can be specified only in conjunction with the --analyze or
           --analyze-only options. Multiple tables can be vacuumed by writing multiple -t switches.

               Tip
               If you specify columns, you probably have to escape the parentheses from the shell. (See examples
               below.)

       -v
       --verbose
           Print detailed information during processing.

       -V
       --version
           Print the vacuumdb version and exit.

       -z
       --analyze
           Also calculate statistics for use by the optimizer.

       -Z
       --analyze-only
           Only calculate statistics for use by the optimizer (no vacuum).

       --analyze-in-stages
           Only calculate statistics for use by the optimizer (no vacuum), like --analyze-only. Run several
           (currently three) stages of analyze with different configuration settings, to produce usable statistics
           faster.

           This option is useful to analyze a database that was newly populated from a restored dump or by
           pg_upgrade. This option will try to create some statistics as fast as possible, to make the database
           usable, and then produce full statistics in the subsequent stages.

       -?
       --help
           Show help about vacuumdb command line arguments, and exit.

       vacuumdb also accepts the following command-line arguments for connection parameters:

       -h host
       --host=host
           Specifies the host name of the machine on which the server is running. If the value begins with a slash,
           it is used as the directory for the Unix domain socket.

       -p port
       --port=port
           Specifies the TCP port or local Unix domain socket file extension on which the server is listening for
           connections.

       -U username
       --username=username
           User name to connect as.

       -w
       --no-password
           Never issue a password prompt. If the server requires password authentication and a password is not
           available by other means such as a .pgpass file, the connection attempt will fail. This option can be
           useful in batch jobs and scripts where no user is present to enter a password.

       -W
       --password
           Force vacuumdb to prompt for a password before connecting to a database.

           This option is never essential, since vacuumdb will automatically prompt for a password if the server
           demands password authentication. However, vacuumdb will waste a connection attempt finding out that the
           server wants a password. In some cases it is worth typing -W to avoid the extra connection attempt.

       --maintenance-db=dbname
           Specifies the name of the database to connect to to discover which databases should be vacuumed, when
           -a/--all is used. If not specified, the postgres database will be used, or if that does not exist,
           template1 will be used. This can be a connection string. If so, connection string parameters will override
           any conflicting command line options. Also, connection string parameters other than the database name
           itself will be re-used when connecting to other databases.

ENVIRONMENT
       PGDATABASE
       PGHOST
       PGPORT
       PGUSER
           Default connection parameters

       PG_COLOR
           Specifies whether to use color in diagnostic messages. Possible values are always, auto and never.

       This utility, like most other PostgreSQL utilities, also uses the environment variables supported by libpq
       (see Section 33.14).

DIAGNOSTICS
       In case of difficulty, see VACUUM(7) and psql(1) for discussions of potential problems and error messages. The
       database server must be running at the targeted host. Also, any default connection settings and environment
       variables used by the libpq front-end library will apply.

NOTES
       vacuumdb might need to connect several times to the PostgreSQL server, asking for a password each time. It is
       convenient to have a ~/.pgpass file in such cases. See Section 33.15 for more information.

EXAMPLES
       To clean the database test:

           $ vacuumdb test

       To clean and analyze for the optimizer a database named bigdb:

           $ vacuumdb --analyze bigdb

       To clean a single table foo in a database named xyzzy, and analyze a single column bar of the table for the
       optimizer:

           $ vacuumdb --analyze --verbose --table='foo(bar)' xyzzy

SEE ALSO
       VACUUM(7)

PostgreSQL 12.7                                          2021                                             VACUUMDB(1)
