7.  Security Considerations

   Traditionally, Layer 2 networks can only be attacked from 'within' by
   rogue end points -- either by having inappropriate access to a LAN
   and snooping on traffic, by injecting spoofed packets to 'take over'
   another MAC address, or by flooding and causing denial of service.  A
   MAC-over-IP mechanism for delivering Layer 2 traffic significantly
   extends this attack surface.  This can happen by rogues injecting
   themselves into the network by subscribing to one or more multicast
   groups that carry broadcast traffic for VXLAN segments and also by
   sourcing MAC-over-UDP frames into the transport network to inject
   spurious traffic, possibly to hijack MAC addresses.





Mahalingam, et al.            Informational                    [Page 18]

RFC 7348                          VXLAN                      August 2014


   This document does not incorporate specific measures against such
   attacks, relying instead on other traditional mechanisms layered on
   top of IP.  This section, instead, sketches out some possible
   approaches to security in the VXLAN environment.

   Traditional Layer 2 attacks by rogue end points can be mitigated by
   limiting the management and administrative scope of who deploys and
   manages VMs/gateways in a VXLAN environment.  In addition, such
   administrative measures may be augmented by schemes like 802.1X
   [802.1X] for admission control of individual end points.  Also, the
   use of the UDP-based encapsulation of VXLAN enables configuration and
   use of the 5-tuple-based ACL (Access Control List) functionality in
   physical switches.

   Tunneled traffic over the IP network can be secured with traditional
   security mechanisms like IPsec that authenticate and optionally
   encrypt VXLAN traffic.  This will, of course, need to be coupled with
   an authentication infrastructure for authorized end points to obtain
   and distribute credentials.

   VXLAN overlay networks are designated and operated over the existing
   LAN infrastructure.  To ensure that VXLAN end points and their VTEPs
   are authorized on the LAN, it is recommended that a VLAN be
   designated for VXLAN traffic and the servers/VTEPs send VXLAN traffic
   over this VLAN to provide a measure of security.

   In addition, VXLAN requires proper mapping of VNIs and VM membership
   in these overlay networks.  It is expected that this mapping be done
   and communicated to the management entity on the VTEP and the
   gateways using existing secure methods.

