1.  Introduction

   Server virtualization has placed increased demands on the physical
   network infrastructure.  A physical server now has multiple Virtual
   Machines (VMs) each with its own Media Access Control (MAC) address.
   This requires larger MAC address tables in the switched Ethernet
   network due to potential attachment of and communication among
   hundreds of thousands of VMs.

   In the case when the VMs in a data center are grouped according to
   their Virtual LAN (VLAN), one might need thousands of VLANs to
   partition the traffic according to the specific group to which the VM
   may belong.  The current VLAN limit of 4094 is inadequate in such
   situations.

   Data centers are often required to host multiple tenants, each with
   their own isolated network domain.  Since it is not economical to
   realize this with dedicated infrastructure, network administrators
   opt to implement isolation over a shared network.  In such scenarios,
   a common problem is that each tenant may independently assign MAC
   addresses and VLAN IDs leading to potential duplication of these on
   the physical network.

   An important requirement for virtualized environments using a Layer 2
   physical infrastructure is having the Layer 2 network scale across
   the entire data center or even between data centers for efficient
   allocation of compute, network, and storage resources.  In such
   networks, using traditional approaches like the Spanning Tree
   Protocol (STP) for a loop-free topology can result in a large number
   of disabled links.

   The last scenario is the case where the network operator prefers to
   use IP for interconnection of the physical infrastructure (e.g., to
   achieve multipath scalability through Equal-Cost Multipath (ECMP),
   thus avoiding disabled links).  Even in such environments, there is a
   need to preserve the Layer 2 model for inter-VM communication.

   The scenarios described above lead to a requirement for an overlay
   network.  This overlay is used to carry the MAC traffic from the
   individual VMs in an encapsulated format over a logical "tunnel".

   This document details a framework termed "Virtual eXtensible Local
   Area Network (VXLAN)" that provides such an encapsulation scheme to
   address the various requirements specified above.  This memo
   documents the deployed VXLAN protocol for the benefit of the Internet
   community.





Mahalingam, et al.            Informational                     [Page 3]

RFC 7348                          VXLAN                      August 2014


