2.1.  The Algorithm

   A TCP sender MAY implement the basic F-RTO algorithm.  If it chooses
   to apply the algorithm, the following steps MUST be taken after the
   retransmission timer expires.  If the sender implements some loss
   recovery algorithm other than Reno or NewReno [FHG04], the F-RTO
   algorithm SHOULD NOT be entered when earlier fast recovery is
   underway.

   1) When RTO expires, retransmit the first unacknowledged segment and
      set SpuriousRecovery to FALSE.  Also, store the highest sequence
      number transmitted so far in variable "recover".

   2) When the first acknowledgment after the RTO retransmission arrives
      at the sender, the sender chooses one of the following actions,
      depending on whether the ACK advances the window or whether it is
      a duplicate ACK.

      a) If the acknowledgment is a duplicate ACK OR it acknowledges a
         sequence number equal to the value of "recover" OR it does not
         acknowledge all of the data that was retransmitted in step 1,
         revert to the conventional RTO recovery and continue by
         retransmitting unacknowledged data in slow start.  Do not enter
         step 3 of this algorithm.  The SpuriousRecovery variable
         remains as FALSE.

      b) Else, if the acknowledgment advances the window AND it is below
         the value of "recover", transmit up to two new (previously
         unsent) segments and enter step 3 of this algorithm.  If the
         TCP sender does not have enough unsent data, it can send only
         one segment.  In addition, the TCP sender MAY override the
         Nagle algorithm [Nag84] and immediately send a segment if
         needed.  Note that sending two segments in this step is allowed
         by TCP congestion control requirements [APS99]: An F-RTO TCP
         sender simply chooses different segments to transmit.

         If the TCP sender does not have any new data to send, or the
         advertised window prohibits new transmissions, the recommended
         action is to skip step 3 of this algorithm and continue with
         slow start retransmissions, following the conventional RTO
         recovery algorithm.  However, alternative ways of handling the
         window-limited cases that could result in better performance
         are discussed in Appendix C.

   3) When the second acknowledgment after the RTO retransmission
      arrives at the sender, the TCP sender either declares the timeout
      spurious, or starts retransmitting the unacknowledged segments.




Sarolahti & Kojo              Experimental                      [Page 5]

RFC 4138                  Forward RTO-Recovery               August 2005


      a) If the acknowledgment is a duplicate ACK, set the congestion
         window to no more than 3 * MSS, and continue with the slow
         start algorithm retransmitting unacknowledged segments.  The
         congestion window can be set to 3 * MSS, because two round-trip
         times have elapsed since the RTO, and a conventional TCP sender
         would have increased cwnd to 3 during the same time.  Leave
         SpuriousRecovery set to FALSE.

      b) If the acknowledgment advances the window (i.e., if it
         acknowledges data that was not retransmitted after the
         timeout), declare the timeout spurious, set SpuriousRecovery to
         SPUR_TO, and set the value of the "recover" variable to SND.UNA
         (the oldest unacknowledged sequence number [Pos81]).

