3.  SACK-Enhanced Version of the F-RTO Algorithm

   This section describes an alternative version of the F-RTO algorithm
   that uses the TCP Selective Acknowledgment Option [MMFR96].  By using
   the SACK option, the TCP sender detects spurious timeouts in most of
   the cases when packet reordering or packet duplication is present.
   If the SACK blocks acknowledge new data that was not transmitted
   after the RTO retransmission, the sender may declare the timeout
   spurious, even when duplicate ACKs follow the RTO.

   Given that the TCP Selective Acknowledgment Option [MMFR96] is
   enabled for a TCP connection, a TCP sender MAY implement the
   SACK-enhanced F-RTO algorithm.  If the sender applies the
   SACK-enhanced F-RTO algorithm, it MUST follow the steps below.  This
   algorithm SHOULD NOT be applied if the TCP sender is already in SACK
   loss recovery when retransmission timeout occurs.  However, when
   retransmission timeout occurs during existing loss recovery, it
   should be possible to apply the principle of F-RTO within certain
   limitations.  This is a topic for further research.  Appendix B
   briefly discusses the related issues.

   The steps of the SACK-enhanced version of the F-RTO algorithm are as
   follows.

   1) When the RTO expires, retransmit the first unacknowledged segment
      and set SpuriousRecovery to FALSE.  Set variable "recover" to
      indicate the highest segment transmitted so far.  Following the
      recommendation in SACK specification [MMFR96], reset the SACK
      scoreboard.

   2) Wait until the acknowledgment of the data retransmitted due to the
      timeout arrives at the sender.  If duplicate ACKs arrive before
      the cumulative acknowledgment for retransmitted data, adjust the
      scoreboard according to the incoming SACK information.  Stay in
      step 2 and wait for the next new acknowledgment.  If RTO expires
      again, go to step 1 of the algorithm.

      a) if a cumulative ACK acknowledges a sequence number equal to
         "recover", revert to the conventional RTO recovery and set the
         congestion window to no more than 2 * MSS, like a regular TCP
         would do.  Do not enter step 3 of this algorithm.






Sarolahti & Kojo              Experimental                      [Page 8]

RFC 4138                  Forward RTO-Recovery               August 2005


      b) else, if a cumulative ACK acknowledges a sequence number
         (smaller than "recover", but larger than SND.UNA) transmit up
         to two new (previously unsent) segments and proceed to step 3.
         If the TCP sender is not able to transmit any previously unsent
         data -- either due to receiver window limitation, or because it
         does not have any new data to send -- the recommended action is
         to refrain from entering step 3 of this algorithm.  Rather,
         continue with slow start retransmissions following the
         conventional RTO recovery algorithm.

         It is also possible to apply some of the alternatives for
         handling window-limited cases discussed in Appendix C.  In this
         case, the TCP sender should follow the recommendations
         concerning acknowledgments of retransmitted segments given in
         Appendix B.

   3) The next acknowledgment arrives at the sender.  Either a duplicate
      ACK or a new cumulative ACK (advancing the window) applies in this
      step.

      a) if the ACK acknowledges a sequence number above "recover",
         either in SACK blocks or as a cumulative ACK, set the
         congestion window to no more than 3 * MSS and proceed with the
         conventional RTO recovery, retransmitting unacknowledged
         segments.  Take this branch also when the acknowledgment is a
         duplicate ACK and it does not acknowledge any new, previously
         unacknowledged data below "recover" in the SACK blocks.  Leave
         SpuriousRecovery set to FALSE.

      b) if the ACK does not acknowledge sequence numbers above
         "recover" AND it acknowledges data that was not acknowledged
         earlier (either with cumulative acknowledgment or using SACK
         blocks), declare the timeout spurious and set SpuriousRecovery
         to SPUR_TO.  The retransmission timeout can be declared
         spurious, because the segment acknowledged with this ACK was
         transmitted before the timeout.

   If there are unacknowledged holes between the received SACK blocks,
   those segments are retransmitted similarly to the conventional SACK
   recovery algorithm [BAFW03].  If the algorithm exits with
   SpuriousRecovery set to SPUR_TO, "recover" is set to SND.UNA, thus
   allowing fast recovery on incoming duplicate acknowledgments.









Sarolahti & Kojo              Experimental                      [Page 9]

RFC 4138                  Forward RTO-Recovery               August 2005


