5.  SCTP Considerations

   SCTP has similar retransmission algorithms and congestion control to
   TCP.  The SCTP T3-rtx timer for one destination address is maintained
   in the same way as the TCP retransmission timer, and after a T3-rtx
   expires, an SCTP sender retransmits unacknowledged data chunks in
   slow start like TCP does.  Therefore, SCTP is vulnerable to the
   negative effects of the spurious retransmission timeouts similarly to
   TCP.  Due to similar RTO recovery algorithms, F-RTO algorithm logic
   can be applied also to SCTP.  Since SCTP uses selective
   acknowledgments, the SACK-based variant of the algorithm is
   recommended, although the basic version can also be applied to SCTP.
   However, SCTP contains features that are not present with TCP that
   need to be discussed when applying the F-RTO algorithm.

   SCTP associations can be multi-homed.  The current retransmission
   policy states that retransmissions should go to alternative
   addresses.  If the retransmission was due to spurious timeout caused
   by a delay spike, it is possible that the acknowledgment for the
   retransmission arrives back at the sender before the acknowledgments
   of the original transmissions arrive.  If this happens, a possible
   loss of the original transmission of the data chunk that was
   retransmitted due to the spurious timeout may remain undetected when
   applying the F-RTO algorithm.  Because the timeout was caused by a
   delay spike, and it was spurious in that respect, a suitable response
   is to continue by sending new data.  However, if the original



Sarolahti & Kojo              Experimental                     [Page 10]

RFC 4138                  Forward RTO-Recovery               August 2005


   transmission was lost, fully reverting the congestion control
   parameters is too aggressive.  Therefore, taking conservative actions
   on congestion control is recommended, if the SCTP association is
   multi-homed and retransmissions go to alternative addresses.  The
   information in duplicate TSNs can be then used for reverting
   congestion control, if desired [BA04].

   Note that the forward transmissions made in F-RTO algorithm step (2b)
   should be destined to the primary address, since they are not
   retransmissions.

   When making a retransmission, an SCTP sender can bundle a number of
   unacknowledged data chunks and include them in the same packet.  This
   needs to be considered when implementing F-RTO for SCTP.  The basic
   principle of F-RTO still holds: in order to declare the timeout
   spurious, the sender must get an acknowledgment for a data chunk that
   was not retransmitted after the retransmission timeout.  In other
   words, acknowledgments of data chunks that were bundled in RTO
   retransmission must not be used for declaring the timeout spurious.

