TUNED_PROFILES(7)                                       TuneD                                       TUNED_PROFILES(7)

NAME
       tuned-profiles - description of basic TuneD profiles

DESCRIPTION
       These  are  the base profiles which are mostly shipped in the base tuned package. They are targeted to various
       goals. Mostly they provide performance optimizations but there are also profiles targeted to  low  power  con-
       sumption,  low latency and others. You can mostly deduce the purpose of the profile by its name or you can see
       full description below.

       The profiles are stored in subdirectories below /usr/lib/tuned. If you need to customize the profiles, you can
       copy  them to /etc/tuned and modify them as you need. When loading profiles with the same name, the /etc/tuned
       takes precedence. In such case you will not lose your customized profiles between TuneD updates.

       The power saving profiles contain settings that are typically not enabled by default as they  will  noticeably
       impact  the  latency/performance  of your system as opposed to the power saving mechanisms that are enabled by
       default. On the other hand the performance profiles disable the additional power saving mechanisms of TuneD as
       they would negatively impact throughput or latency.

PROFILES
       At the moment we're providing the following pre-defined profiles:

       balanced
              It is the default profile. It provides balanced power saving and performance.  At the moment it enables
              CPU and disk plugins of TuneD and it makes sure the conservative governor is active  (if  supported  by
              the  current  cpufreq  driver).   It enables ALPM power saving for SATA host adapters and sets the link
              power management policy to medium_power. It also sets the CPU energy performance  bias  to  normal.  It
              also  enables  AC97  audio  power saving or (it depends on your system) HDA-Intel power savings with 10
              seconds timeout. In case your system contains supported Radeon graphics card (with enabled KMS) it con-
              figures it to automatic power saving.

       powersave
              Maximal  power saving, at the moment it enables USB autosuspend (in case environment variable USB_AUTO-
              SUSPEND is set to 1), enables ALPM power saving for SATA host adapters and sets the link power  manage-
              ment  policy  to  min_power.  It also enables WiFi power saving and makes sure the ondemand governor is
              active (if supported by the current cpufreq driver). It sets the CPU energy performance bias to  power-
              save.  It  also  enables AC97 audio power saving or (it depends on your system) HDA-Intel power savings
              (with 10 seconds timeout). In case your system contains supported Radeon graphics  card  (with  enabled
              KMS)  it  configures  it  to automatic power saving. On Asus Eee PCs dynamic Super Hybrid Engine is en-
              abled.

       throughput-performance
              Profile for typical throughput performance tuning. Disables power saving mechanisms and enables  sysctl
              settings  that  improve  the throughput performance of your disk and network IO. CPU governor is set to
              performance and CPU energy performance bias is set to performance. Disk readahead values are increased.

       accelerator-performance
              This profile contains the same tuning as the throughput-performance profile.   Additionally,  it  locks
              the  CPU  to low C states so that the latency is less than 100us. This improves the performance of cer-
              tain accelerators, such as GPUs.

       latency-performance
              Profile for low latency performance tuning. Disables power saving mechanisms.  CPU governor is  set  to
              performance and locked to the low C states (by PM QoS).  CPU energy performance bias to performance.

       network-throughput
              Profile  for throughput network tuning. It is based on the throughput-performance profile. It addition-
              ally increases kernel network buffers.

       network-latency
              Profile for low latency network tuning. It is based on the latency-performance profile. It additionally
              disables  transparent  hugepages, NUMA balancing and tunes several other network related sysctl parame-
              ters.

       desktop
              Profile optimized for desktops based on balanced profile. It additionally enables scheduler  autogroups
              for better response of interactive applications.

       hpc-compute
              Profile optimized for high-performance computing. It is based on the latency-performance profile.

       virtual-guest
              Profile  optimized  for  virtual  guests  based on throughput-performance profile.  It additionally de-
              creases virtual memory swappiness and increases dirty_ratio settings.

       virtual-host
              Profile optimized for virtual hosts based on throughput-performance profile.  It  additionally  enables
              more aggressive writeback of dirty pages.

       intel-sst
              Profile optimized for systems with user-defined Intel Speed Select Technology configurations. This pro-
              file is intended to be used as an overlay on other profiles (e.g. cpu-partitioning  profile),  example:
              tuned-adm profile cpu-partitioning intel-sst

       optimize-serial-console
              Profile  which  tunes down I/O activity to the serial console by reducing the printk value. This should
              make the serial console more responsive.  This profile is intended to be used as an  overlay  on  other
              profiles (e.g. throughput-performance profile), example: tuned-adm profile throughput-performance opti-
              mize-serial-console

FILES
       /etc/tuned/*
       /usr/lib/tuned/*

SEE ALSO
       tuned(8) tuned-adm(8)  tuned-profiles-atomic(7)  tuned-profiles-sap(7)  tuned-profiles-sap-hana(7)  tuned-pro-
       files-oracle(7)  tuned-profiles-realtime(7)  tuned-profiles-nfv-host(7) tuned-profiles-nfv-guest(7) tuned-pro-
       files-cpu-partitioning(7) tuned-profiles-compat(7) tuned-profiles-postgresql(7)

AUTHOR
       Jaroslav Skarvada <jskarvad@redhat.com>
       Jan Kaluza <jkaluza@redhat.com>
       Jan Vcelák <jvcelak@redhat.com>
       Marcela Maslánová <mmaslano@redhat.com>
       Phil Knirsch <pknirsch@redhat.com>

Fedora Power Management SIG                          30 Mar 2017                                    TUNED_PROFILES(7)
