





Network Working Group                                           D. Mills
Request for Comments: 1589                        University of Delaware
Category: Informational                                       March 1994


                A Kernel Model for Precision Timekeeping

Status of this Memo

   This memo provides information for the Internet community.  This memo
   does not specify an Internet standard of any kind.  Distribution of
   this memo is unlimited.

Overview

   This memorandum describes an engineering model which implements a
   precision time-of-day function for a generic operating system. The
   model is based on the principles of disciplined oscillators and
   phase-lock loops (PLL) often found in the engineering literature. It
   has been implemented in the Unix kernel for several workstations,
   including those made by Sun Microsystems and Digital Equipment. The
   model changes the way the system clock is adjusted in time and
   frequency, as well as provides mechanisms to discipline its frequency
   to an external precision timing source. The model incorporates a
   generic system-call interface for use with the Network Time Protocol
   (NTP) or similar time synchronization protocol. The NTP Version 3
   daemon xntpd operates with this model to provide synchronization
   limited in principle only by the accuracy and stability of the
   external timing source.

   This memorandum does not obsolete or update any RFC. It does not
   propose a standard protocol, specification or algorithm. It is
   intended to provoke comment, refinement and alternative
   implementations. While a working knowledge of NTP is not required for
   an understanding of the design principles or implementation of the
   model, it may be helpful in understanding how the model behaves in a
   fully functional timekeeping system. The architecture and design of
   NTP is described in [1], while the current NTP Version 3 protocol
   specification is given in RFC-1305 [2] and a subset of the protocol,
   the Simple Network Time Protocol (SNTP), in RFC-1361 [4].

   The model has been implemented in three Unix kernels for Sun
   Microsystems and Digital Equipment workstations. In addition, for the
   Digital machines the model provides improved precision to one
   microsecond (us). Since these specific implementations involve
   modifications to licensed code, they cannot be provided directly.
   Inquiries should be directed to the manufacturer's representatives.
   However, the engineering model for these implementations, including a



Mills                                                           [Page 1]

RFC 1589         Kernel Model for Precision Timekeeping       March 1994


   simulator with code segments almost identical to the implementations,
   but not involving licensed code, is available via anonymous FTP from
   host louie.udel.edu in the directory pub/ntp and compressed tar
   archive kernel.tar.Z. The NTP Version 3 distribution can be obtained
   via anonymous ftp from the same host and directory in the compressed
   tar archive xntp3.3g.tar.Z, where the version number shown as 3.3g
   may be adjusted for new versions as they occur.

