FUNCTIONS
       A  shell function, defined as described above under SHELL GRAMMAR, stores a series of commands for later execution.  When the name of a shell function is used as a simple command
       name, the list of commands associated with that function name is executed.  Functions are executed in the context of the current shell; no new process  is  created  to  interpret
       them (contrast this with the execution of a shell script).  When a function is executed, the arguments to the function become the positional parameters during its execution.  The
       special parameter # is updated to reflect the change.  Special parameter 0 is unchanged.  The first element of the FUNCNAME variable is set to the name of the function while  the
       function is executing.

       All other aspects of the shell execution environment are identical between a function and its caller with these exceptions: the DEBUG and RETURN traps (see the description of the
       trap builtin under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS below) are not inherited unless the function has been given the trace attribute (see the description of the declare  builtin  below)  or
       the -o functrace shell option has been enabled with the set builtin (in which case all functions inherit the DEBUG and RETURN traps), and the ERR trap is not inherited unless the
       -o errtrace shell option has been enabled.

       Variables local to the function may be declared with the local builtin command.  Ordinarily, variables and their values are shared between the function  and  its  caller.   If  a
       variable  is  declared local, the variable's visible scope is restricted to that function and its children (including the functions it calls).  Local variables "shadow" variables
       with the same name declared at previous scopes.  For instance, a local variable declared in a function hides a global variable of the same name: references and assignments  refer
       to the local variable, leaving the global variable unmodified.  When the function returns, the global variable is once again visible.

       The  shell  uses  dynamic  scoping  to control a variable's visibility within functions.  With dynamic scoping, visible variables and their values are a result of the sequence of
       function calls that caused execution to reach the current function.  The value of a variable that a function sees depends on its value within its caller,  if  any,  whether  that
       caller  is  the  "global"  scope  or another shell function.  This is also the value that a local variable declaration "shadows", and the value that is restored when the function
       returns.

       For example, if a variable var is declared as local in function func1, and func1 calls another function func2, references to var made from within func2 will resolve to the  local
       variable var from func1, shadowing any global variable named var.

       The  unset  builtin also acts using the same dynamic scope: if a variable is local to the current scope, unset will unset it; otherwise the unset will refer to the variable found
       in any calling scope as described above.  If a variable at the current local scope is unset, it will remain so until it is reset in that scope  or  until  the  function  returns.
       Once  the function returns, any instance of the variable at a previous scope will become visible.  If the unset acts on a variable at a previous scope, any instance of a variable
       with that name that had been shadowed will become visible.

       The FUNCNEST variable, if set to a numeric value greater than 0, defines a maximum function nesting level.  Function invocations that exceed the limit cause the entire command to
       abort.

       If  the builtin command return is executed in a function, the function completes and execution resumes with the next command after the function call.  Any command associated with
       the RETURN trap is executed before execution resumes.  When a function completes, the values of the positional parameters and the special parameter # are restored to  the  values
       they had prior to the function's execution.

       Function names and definitions may be listed with the -f option to the declare or typeset builtin commands.  The -F option to declare or typeset will list the function names only
       (and optionally the source file and line number, if the extdebug shell option is enabled).  Functions may be exported so that subshells automatically have them defined  with  the
       -f option to the export builtin.  A function definition may be deleted using the -f option to the unset builtin.

       Functions  may  be  recursive.   The  FUNCNEST variable may be used to limit the depth of the function call stack and restrict the number of function invocations.  By default, no
       limit is imposed on the number of recursive calls.

