3.1. The basic algorithm for reducing the congestion window

   A key issue in the CWV algorithm is to determine how to apply the
   guideline of reducing the congestion window once for every roundtrip
   time that the flow is application-limited.  We use TCP's
   retransmission timer (RTO) as a reasonable upper bound on the
   roundtrip time, and reduce the congestion window roughly once per
   RTO.

   This basic algorithm could be implemented in TCP as follows: When TCP
   sends a new packet it checks to see if more than RTO seconds have
   elapsed since the previous packet was sent.  If RTO has elapsed,
   ssthresh is set to the maximum of 3/4 cwnd and the current value of
   ssthresh, and then the congestion window is halved for every RTO that
   elapsed since the previous packet was sent.  In addition, T_prev is
   set to the current time, and W_used is reset to zero.  T_prev will be
   used to determine the elapsed time since the sender last was network-
   limited or had reduced cwnd after an idle period.  When the sender is
   application-limited, W_used holds the maximum congestion window
   actually used since the sender was last network-limited.

   The mechanism for determining the number of RTOs in the most recent
   idle period could also be implemented by using a timer that expires
   every RTO after the last packet was sent instead of a check per
   packet - efficiency constraints on different operating systems may
   dictate which is more efficient to implement.




Handley, et al.               Experimental                      [Page 5]

RFC 2861            TCP Congestion Window Validation           June 2000


   After TCP sends a packet, it also checks to see if that packet filled
   the congestion window.  If so, the sender is network-limited, and
   sets the variable T_prev to the current TCP clock time, and the
   variable W_used to zero.

   When TCP sends a packet that does not fill the congestion window, and
   the TCP send queue is empty, then the sender is application-limited.
   The sender checks to see if the amount of unacknowledged data is
   greater than W_used; if so, W_used is set to the amount of
   unacknowledged data.  In addition TCP checks to see if the elapsed
   time since T_prev is greater than RTO.  If so, then the TCP has not
   just reduced its congestion window following an idle period.  The TCP
   has been application-limited rather than network-limited for at least
   an entire RTO interval, but for less than two RTO intervals.  In this
   case, TCP sets ssthresh to the maximum of 3/4 cwnd and the current
   value of ssthresh, and reduces its congestion window to
   (cwnd+W_used)/2.  W_used is then set to zero, and T_prev is set to
   the current time, so a further reduction will not take place until at
   least another RTO period has elapsed.  Thus, during an application-
   limited period the CWV algorithm reduces the congestion window once
   per RTO.

