5. Experiments

   We have implemented the CWV mechanism in the TCP implementation in
   FreeBSD 3.2.  [HPF99] discusses these experiments in more detail.

   The first experiment examines the effects of the Congestion Window
   Validation mechanisms for limiting cwnd increases during
   application-limited periods.  The experiment used a real ssh
   connection through a modem link emulated using Dummynet [Dummynet].
   The link speed is 30Kb/s and the link has five packet buffers
   available.  Today most modem banks have more buffering available than
   this, but the more buffer-limited situation sometimes occurs with
   older modems.  In the first half of the transfer, the user is typing
   away over the connection.  About half way through the time, the user
   lists a moderately large file, which causes a large burst of traffic
   to be transmitted.

   For the unmodified TCP, every returning ACK during the first part of
   the transfer results in an increase in cwnd.  As a result, the large
   burst of data arriving from the application to the transport layer is
   sent as many back-to-back packets, most of which get lost and
   subsequently retransmitted.

   For the modified TCP with Congestion Window Validation, the
   congestion window is not increased when the window is not full, and
   has been decreased during application-limited periods closer to what
   the user actually used.  The burst of traffic is now constrained by
   the congestion window, resulting in a better-behaved flow with





Handley, et al.               Experimental                      [Page 7]

RFC 2861            TCP Congestion Window Validation           June 2000


   minimal loss.  The end result is that the transfer happens
   approximately 30% faster than the transfer without CWV, due to
   avoiding retransmission timeouts.

   The second experiment uses a real ssh connection over a real dialup
   ppp connection, where the modem bank has much more buffering.  For
   the unmodified TCP, the initial burst from the large file does not
   cause loss, but does cause the RTT to increase to approximately 5
   seconds, where the connection becomes bounded by the receiver's
   window.

   For the modified TCP with Congestion Window Validation, the flow is
   much better behaved, and produces no large burst of traffic.  In this
   case the linear increase for cwnd results in a slow increase in the
   RTT as the buffer slowly fills.

   For the second experiment, both the modified and the unmodified TCP
   finish delivering the data at precisely the same time.  This is
   because the link has been fully utilized in both cases due to the
   modem buffer being larger than the receiver window.  Clearly a modem
   buffer of this size is undesirable due to its effect on the RTT of
   competing flows, but it is necessary with current TCP implementations
   that produce bursts similar to those shown in the top graph.

