COMPILE TIME CHANGES					*compile-changes-7*

Dropped the support for the BeOS and Amiga GUI.  They were not maintained and
probably didn't work.  If you want to work on this: get the Vim 6.x version
and merge it back in.

When running the tests and one of them fails to produce "test.out" the
following tests are still executed.  This helps when running out of memory.

When compiling with EXITFREE defined and the ccmalloc library, it is possible
to detect memory leaks.  Some memory will always be reported as leaked, such
as allocated by X11 library functions and the memory allocated in
alloc_cmdbuff() to store the ":quit" command.

Moved the code for printing to src/hardcopy.c.

Moved some code from main() to separate functions to make it easier to see
what is being done.  Using a structure to avoid a lot of arguments to the
functions.

Moved unix_expandpath() to misc1.c, so that it can also be used by os_mac.c
without copying the code.

--- Mac ---

"make" now creates the Vim.app directory and "make install" copies it to its
final destination. (Raf)

Put the runtime directory not directly in Vim.app but in
Vim.app/Contents/Resources/vim, so that it's according to Mac specs.

Made it possible to compile with Motif, Athena or GTK without tricks and still
being able to use the MacRoman conversion.  Added the os_mac_conv.c file.

When running "make install" the runtime files are installed as for Unix.
Avoids that too many files are copied.  When running "make" a link to the
runtime files is created to avoid a recursive copy that takes much time.

Configure will attempt to build Vim for both Intel and PowerPC.  The
--with-mac-arch configure argument can change it.

--- Win32 ---

The Make_mvc.mak file was adjusted to work with the latest MS compilers,
including the free version of Visual Studio 2005. (George Reilly)

INSTALLpc.txt was updated for the recent changes. (George Reilly)

The distributed executable is now produced with the free Visual C++ Toolkit
2003 and other free SDK chunks.  msvcsetup.bat was added to support this.

Also generate the .pdb file that can be used to generate a useful crash report
on MS-Windows. (George Reilly)

