Options specification
=====================

Use OPTIONS to override several configure time options for GCC.  A list
of supported OPTIONS follows; 'configure --help' may list other options,
but those not listed below may not work and should not normally be used.

   Note that each '--enable' option has a corresponding '--disable'
option and that each '--with' option has a corresponding '--without'
option.

'--prefix=DIRNAME'
     Specify the toplevel installation directory.  This is the
     recommended way to install the tools into a directory other than
     the default.  The toplevel installation directory defaults to
     '/usr/local'.

     We *highly* recommend against DIRNAME being the same or a
     subdirectory of OBJDIR or vice versa.  If specifying a directory
     beneath a user's home directory tree, some shells will not expand
     DIRNAME correctly if it contains the '~' metacharacter; use '$HOME'
     instead.

     The following standard 'autoconf' options are supported.  Normally
     you should not need to use these options.
     '--exec-prefix=DIRNAME'
          Specify the toplevel installation directory for
          architecture-dependent files.  The default is 'PREFIX'.

     '--bindir=DIRNAME'
          Specify the installation directory for the executables called
          by users (such as 'gcc' and 'g++').  The default is
          'EXEC-PREFIX/bin'.

     '--libdir=DIRNAME'
          Specify the installation directory for object code libraries
          and internal data files of GCC.  The default is
          'EXEC-PREFIX/lib'.

     '--libexecdir=DIRNAME'
          Specify the installation directory for internal executables of
          GCC.  The default is 'EXEC-PREFIX/libexec'.

     '--with-slibdir=DIRNAME'
          Specify the installation directory for the shared libgcc
          library.  The default is 'LIBDIR'.

     '--datarootdir=DIRNAME'
          Specify the root of the directory tree for read-only
          architecture-independent data files referenced by GCC.  The
          default is 'PREFIX/share'.

     '--infodir=DIRNAME'
          Specify the installation directory for documentation in info
          format.  The default is 'DATAROOTDIR/info'.

     '--datadir=DIRNAME'
          Specify the installation directory for some
          architecture-independent data files referenced by GCC.  The
          default is 'DATAROOTDIR'.

     '--docdir=DIRNAME'
          Specify the installation directory for documentation files
          (other than Info) for GCC.  The default is 'DATAROOTDIR/doc'.

     '--htmldir=DIRNAME'
          Specify the installation directory for HTML documentation
          files.  The default is 'DOCDIR'.

     '--pdfdir=DIRNAME'
          Specify the installation directory for PDF documentation
          files.  The default is 'DOCDIR'.

     '--mandir=DIRNAME'
          Specify the installation directory for manual pages.  The
          default is 'DATAROOTDIR/man'.  (Note that the manual pages are
          only extracts from the full GCC manuals, which are provided in
          Texinfo format.  The manpages are derived by an automatic
          conversion process from parts of the full manual.)

     '--with-gxx-include-dir=DIRNAME'
          Specify the installation directory for G++ header files.  The
          default depends on other configuration options, and differs
          between cross and native configurations.

     '--with-specs=SPECS'
          Specify additional command line driver SPECS. This can be
          useful if you need to turn on a non-standard feature by
          default without modifying the compiler's source code, for
          instance
          '--with-specs=%{!fcommon:%{!fno-common:-fno-common}}'.  *Note
          Specifying subprocesses and the switches to pass to them:
          (gcc)Spec Files,

'--program-prefix=PREFIX'
     GCC supports some transformations of the names of its programs when
     installing them.  This option prepends PREFIX to the names of
     programs to install in BINDIR (see above).  For example, specifying
     '--program-prefix=foo-' would result in 'gcc' being installed as
     '/usr/local/bin/foo-gcc'.

'--program-suffix=SUFFIX'
     Appends SUFFIX to the names of programs to install in BINDIR (see
     above).  For example, specifying '--program-suffix=-3.1' would
     result in 'gcc' being installed as '/usr/local/bin/gcc-3.1'.

'--program-transform-name=PATTERN'
     Applies the 'sed' script PATTERN to be applied to the names of
     programs to install in BINDIR (see above).  PATTERN has to consist
     of one or more basic 'sed' editing commands, separated by
     semicolons.  For example, if you want the 'gcc' program name to be
     transformed to the installed program '/usr/local/bin/myowngcc' and
     the 'g++' program name to be transformed to
     '/usr/local/bin/gspecial++' without changing other program names,
     you could use the pattern
     '--program-transform-name='s/^gcc$/myowngcc/; s/^g++$/gspecial++/''
     to achieve this effect.

     All three options can be combined and used together, resulting in
     more complex conversion patterns.  As a basic rule, PREFIX (and
     SUFFIX) are prepended (appended) before further transformations can
     happen with a special transformation script PATTERN.

     As currently implemented, this option only takes effect for native
     builds; cross compiler binaries' names are not transformed even
     when a transformation is explicitly asked for by one of these
     options.

     For native builds, some of the installed programs are also
     installed with the target alias in front of their name, as in
     'i686-pc-linux-gnu-gcc'.  All of the above transformations happen
     before the target alias is prepended to the name--so, specifying
     '--program-prefix=foo-' and 'program-suffix=-3.1', the resulting
     binary would be installed as
     '/usr/local/bin/i686-pc-linux-gnu-foo-gcc-3.1'.

     As a last shortcoming, none of the installed Ada programs are
     transformed yet, which will be fixed in some time.

'--with-local-prefix=DIRNAME'
     Specify the installation directory for local include files.  The
     default is '/usr/local'.  Specify this option if you want the
     compiler to search directory 'DIRNAME/include' for locally
     installed header files _instead_ of '/usr/local/include'.

     You should specify '--with-local-prefix' *only* if your site has a
     different convention (not '/usr/local') for where to put
     site-specific files.

     The default value for '--with-local-prefix' is '/usr/local'
     regardless of the value of '--prefix'.  Specifying '--prefix' has
     no effect on which directory GCC searches for local header files.
     This may seem counterintuitive, but actually it is logical.

     The purpose of '--prefix' is to specify where to _install GCC_. The
     local header files in '/usr/local/include'--if you put any in that
     directory--are not part of GCC.  They are part of other
     programs--perhaps many others.  (GCC installs its own header files
     in another directory which is based on the '--prefix' value.)

     Both the local-prefix include directory and the GCC-prefix include
     directory are part of GCC's "system include" directories.  Although
     these two directories are not fixed, they need to be searched in
     the proper order for the correct processing of the include_next
     directive.  The local-prefix include directory is searched before
     the GCC-prefix include directory.  Another characteristic of system
     include directories is that pedantic warnings are turned off for
     headers in these directories.

     Some autoconf macros add '-I DIRECTORY' options to the compiler
     command line, to ensure that directories containing installed
     packages' headers are searched.  When DIRECTORY is one of GCC's
     system include directories, GCC will ignore the option so that
     system directories continue to be processed in the correct order.
     This may result in a search order different from what was specified
     but the directory will still be searched.

     GCC automatically searches for ordinary libraries using
     'GCC_EXEC_PREFIX'.  Thus, when the same installation prefix is used
     for both GCC and packages, GCC will automatically search for both
     headers and libraries.  This provides a configuration that is easy
     to use.  GCC behaves in a manner similar to that when it is
     installed as a system compiler in '/usr'.

     Sites that need to install multiple versions of GCC may not want to
     use the above simple configuration.  It is possible to use the
     '--program-prefix', '--program-suffix' and
     '--program-transform-name' options to install multiple versions
     into a single directory, but it may be simpler to use different
     prefixes and the '--with-local-prefix' option to specify the
     location of the site-specific files for each version.  It will then
     be necessary for users to specify explicitly the location of local
     site libraries (e.g., with 'LIBRARY_PATH').

     The same value can be used for both '--with-local-prefix' and
     '--prefix' provided it is not '/usr'.  This can be used to avoid
     the default search of '/usr/local/include'.

     *Do not* specify '/usr' as the '--with-local-prefix'!  The
     directory you use for '--with-local-prefix' *must not* contain any
     of the system's standard header files.  If it did contain them,
     certain programs would be miscompiled (including GNU Emacs, on
     certain targets), because this would override and nullify the
     header file corrections made by the 'fixincludes' script.

     Indications are that people who use this option use it based on
     mistaken ideas of what it is for.  People use it as if it specified
     where to install part of GCC.  Perhaps they make this assumption
     because installing GCC creates the directory.

'--with-gcc-major-version-only'
     Specifies that GCC should use only the major number rather than
     MAJOR.MINOR.PATCHLEVEL in filesystem paths.

'--with-native-system-header-dir=DIRNAME'
     Specifies that DIRNAME is the directory that contains native system
     header files, rather than '/usr/include'.  This option is most
     useful if you are creating a compiler that should be isolated from
     the system as much as possible.  It is most commonly used with the
     '--with-sysroot' option and will cause GCC to search DIRNAME inside
     the system root specified by that option.

'--enable-shared[=PACKAGE[,...]]'
     Build shared versions of libraries, if shared libraries are
     supported on the target platform.  Unlike GCC 2.95.x and earlier,
     shared libraries are enabled by default on all platforms that
     support shared libraries.

     If a list of packages is given as an argument, build shared
     libraries only for the listed packages.  For other packages, only
     static libraries will be built.  Package names currently recognized
     in the GCC tree are 'libgcc' (also known as 'gcc'), 'libstdc++'
     (not 'libstdc++-v3'), 'libffi', 'zlib', 'boehm-gc', 'ada',
     'libada', 'libgo', 'libobjc', and 'libphobos'.  Note 'libiberty'
     does not support shared libraries at all.

     Use '--disable-shared' to build only static libraries.  Note that
     '--disable-shared' does not accept a list of package names as
     argument, only '--enable-shared' does.

     Contrast with '--enable-host-shared', which affects _host_ code.

'--enable-host-shared'
     Specify that the _host_ code should be built into
     position-independent machine code (with -fPIC), allowing it to be
     used within shared libraries, but yielding a slightly slower
     compiler.

     This option is required when building the libgccjit.so library.

     Contrast with '--enable-shared', which affects _target_ libraries.

'--with-gnu-as'
     Specify that the compiler should assume that the assembler it finds
     is the GNU assembler.  However, this does not modify the rules to
     find an assembler and will result in confusion if the assembler
     found is not actually the GNU assembler.  (Confusion may also
     result if the compiler finds the GNU assembler but has not been
     configured with '--with-gnu-as'.)  If you have more than one
     assembler installed on your system, you may want to use this option
     in connection with '--with-as=PATHNAME' or
     '--with-build-time-tools=PATHNAME'.

     The following systems are the only ones where it makes a difference
     whether you use the GNU assembler.  On any other system,
     '--with-gnu-as' has no effect.

        * 'hppa1.0-ANY-ANY'
        * 'hppa1.1-ANY-ANY'
        * 'sparc-sun-solaris2.ANY'
        * 'sparc64-ANY-solaris2.ANY'

'--with-as=PATHNAME'
     Specify that the compiler should use the assembler pointed to by
     PATHNAME, rather than the one found by the standard rules to find
     an assembler, which are:
        * Unless GCC is being built with a cross compiler, check the
          'LIBEXEC/gcc/TARGET/VERSION' directory.  LIBEXEC defaults to
          'EXEC-PREFIX/libexec'; EXEC-PREFIX defaults to PREFIX, which
          defaults to '/usr/local' unless overridden by the
          '--prefix=PATHNAME' switch described above.  TARGET is the
          target system triple, such as 'sparc-sun-solaris2.7', and
          VERSION denotes the GCC version, such as 3.0.

        * If the target system is the same that you are building on,
          check operating system specific directories (e.g.
          '/usr/ccs/bin' on Sun Solaris 2).

        * Check in the 'PATH' for a tool whose name is prefixed by the
          target system triple.

        * Check in the 'PATH' for a tool whose name is not prefixed by
          the target system triple, if the host and target system triple
          are the same (in other words, we use a host tool if it can be
          used for the target as well).

     You may want to use '--with-as' if no assembler is installed in the
     directories listed above, or if you have multiple assemblers
     installed and want to choose one that is not found by the above
     rules.

'--with-gnu-ld'
     Same as '--with-gnu-as' but for the linker.

'--with-ld=PATHNAME'
     Same as '--with-as' but for the linker.

'--with-stabs'
     Specify that stabs debugging information should be used instead of
     whatever format the host normally uses.  Normally GCC uses the same
     debug format as the host system.

'--with-tls=DIALECT'
     Specify the default TLS dialect, for systems were there is a
     choice.  For ARM targets, possible values for DIALECT are 'gnu' or
     'gnu2', which select between the original GNU dialect and the GNU
     TLS descriptor-based dialect.

'--enable-multiarch'
     Specify whether to enable or disable multiarch support.  The
     default is to check for glibc start files in a multiarch location,
     and enable it if the files are found.  The auto detection is
     enabled for native builds, and for cross builds configured with
     '--with-sysroot', and without '--with-native-system-header-dir'.
     More documentation about multiarch can be found at
     <https://wiki.debian.org/Multiarch>.

'--enable-sjlj-exceptions'
     Force use of the 'setjmp'/'longjmp'-based scheme for exceptions.
     'configure' ordinarily picks the correct value based on the
     platform.  Only use this option if you are sure you need a
     different setting.

'--enable-vtable-verify'
     Specify whether to enable or disable the vtable verification
     feature.  Enabling this feature causes libstdc++ to be built with
     its virtual calls in verifiable mode.  This means that, when linked
     with libvtv, every virtual call in libstdc++ will verify the vtable
     pointer through which the call will be made before actually making
     the call.  If not linked with libvtv, the verifier will call stub
     functions (in libstdc++ itself) and do nothing.  If vtable
     verification is disabled, then libstdc++ is not built with its
     virtual calls in verifiable mode at all.  However the libvtv
     library will still be built (see '--disable-libvtv' to turn off
     building libvtv).  '--disable-vtable-verify' is the default.

'--disable-gcov'
     Specify that the run-time library used for coverage analysis and
     associated host tools should not be built.

'--disable-multilib'
     Specify that multiple target libraries to support different target
     variants, calling conventions, etc. should not be built.  The
     default is to build a predefined set of them.

     Some targets provide finer-grained control over which multilibs are
     built (e.g., '--disable-softfloat'):
     'arm-*-*'
          fpu, 26bit, underscore, interwork, biendian, nofmult.

     'm68*-*-*'
          softfloat, m68881, m68000, m68020.

     'mips*-*-*'
          single-float, biendian, softfloat.

     'powerpc*-*-*, rs6000*-*-*'
          aix64, pthread, softfloat, powercpu, powerpccpu, powerpcos,
          biendian, sysv, aix.

'--with-multilib-list=LIST'
'--without-multilib-list'
     Specify what multilibs to build.  LIST is a comma separated list of
     values, possibly consisting of a single value.  Currently only
     implemented for aarch64*-*-*, arm*-*-*, riscv*-*-*, sh*-*-* and
     x86-64-*-linux*.  The accepted values and meaning for each target
     is given below.

     'aarch64*-*-*'
          LIST is a comma separated list of 'ilp32', and 'lp64' to
          enable ILP32 and LP64 run-time libraries, respectively.  If
          LIST is empty, then there will be no multilibs and only the
          default run-time library will be built.  If LIST is 'default'
          or -with-multilib-list= is not specified, then the default set
          of libraries is selected based on the value of '--target'.

     'arm*-*-*'
          LIST is a comma separated list of 'aprofile' and 'rmprofile'
          to build multilibs for A or R and M architecture profiles
          respectively.  Note that, due to some limitation of the
          current multilib framework, using the combined
          'aprofile,rmprofile' multilibs selects in some cases a less
          optimal multilib than when using the multilib profile for the
          architecture targetted.  The special value 'default' is also
          accepted and is equivalent to omitting the option, i.e., only
          the default run-time library will be enabled.

          LIST may instead contain '@name', to use the multilib
          configuration Makefile fragment 'name' in 'gcc/config/arm' in
          the source tree (it is part of the corresponding sources,
          after all).  It is recommended, but not required, that files
          used for this purpose to be named starting with 't-ml-', to
          make their intended purpose self-evident, in line with GCC
          conventions.  Such files enable custom, user-chosen multilib
          lists to be configured.  Whether multiple such files can be
          used together depends on the contents of the supplied files.
          See 'gcc/config/arm/t-multilib' and its supplementary
          'gcc/config/arm/t-*profile' files for an example of what such
          Makefile fragments might look like for this version of GCC.
          The macros expected to be defined in these fragments are not
          stable across GCC releases, so make sure they define the
          'MULTILIB'-related macros expected by the version of GCC you
          are building.  *Note Target Makefile Fragments: (gccint)Target
          Fragment.

          The table below gives the combination of ISAs, architectures,
          FPUs and floating-point ABIs for which multilibs are built for
          each predefined profile.  The union of these options is
          considered when specifying both 'aprofile' and 'rmprofile'.

          Option      aprofile             rmprofile
          ISAs        '-marm' and          '-mthumb'
                      '-mthumb'
          Architecturesdefault             default architecture
                      architecture         '-march=armv6s-m'
                      '-march=armv7-a'     '-march=armv7-m'
                      '-march=armv7ve'     '-march=armv7e-m'
                      '-march=armv8-a'     '-march=armv8-m.base'
                                           '-march=armv8-m.main'
                                           '-march=armv7'
          FPUs        none                 none
                      '-mfpu=vfpv3-d16'    '-mfpu=vfpv3-d16'
                      '-mfpu=neon'         '-mfpu=fpv4-sp-d16'
                      '-mfpu=vfpv4-d16'    '-mfpu=fpv5-sp-d16'
                      '-mfpu=neon-vfpv4'   '-mfpu=fpv5-d16'
                      '-mfpu=neon-fp-armv8'
          floating-point'-mfloat-abi=soft' '-mfloat-abi=soft'
          ABIs        '-mfloat-abi=softfp' '-mfloat-abi=softfp'
                      '-mfloat-abi=hard'   '-mfloat-abi=hard'

     'riscv*-*-*'
          LIST is a single ABI name.  The target architecture must be
          either 'rv32gc' or 'rv64gc'.  This will build a single
          multilib for the specified architecture and ABI pair.  If
          '--with-multilib-list' is not given, then a default set of
          multilibs is selected based on the value of '--target'.  This
          is usually a large set of multilibs.

     'sh*-*-*'
          LIST is a comma separated list of CPU names.  These must be of
          the form 'sh*' or 'm*' (in which case they match the compiler
          option for that processor).  The list should not contain any
          endian options - these are handled by '--with-endian'.

          If LIST is empty, then there will be no multilibs for extra
          processors.  The multilib for the secondary endian remains
          enabled.

          As a special case, if an entry in the list starts with a '!'
          (exclamation point), then it is added to the list of excluded
          multilibs.  Entries of this sort should be compatible with
          'MULTILIB_EXCLUDES' (once the leading '!' has been stripped).

          If '--with-multilib-list' is not given, then a default set of
          multilibs is selected based on the value of '--target'.  This
          is usually the complete set of libraries, but some targets
          imply a more specialized subset.

          Example 1: to configure a compiler for SH4A only, but
          supporting both endians, with little endian being the default:
               --with-cpu=sh4a --with-endian=little,big --with-multilib-list=

          Example 2: to configure a compiler for both SH4A and
          SH4AL-DSP, but with only little endian SH4AL:
               --with-cpu=sh4a --with-endian=little,big \
               --with-multilib-list=sh4al,!mb/m4al

     'x86-64-*-linux*'
          LIST is a comma separated list of 'm32', 'm64' and 'mx32' to
          enable 32-bit, 64-bit and x32 run-time libraries,
          respectively.  If LIST is empty, then there will be no
          multilibs and only the default run-time library will be
          enabled.

          If '--with-multilib-list' is not given, then only 32-bit and
          64-bit run-time libraries will be enabled.

'--with-endian=ENDIANS'
     Specify what endians to use.  Currently only implemented for
     sh*-*-*.

     ENDIANS may be one of the following:
     'big'
          Use big endian exclusively.
     'little'
          Use little endian exclusively.
     'big,little'
          Use big endian by default.  Provide a multilib for little
          endian.
     'little,big'
          Use little endian by default.  Provide a multilib for big
          endian.

'--enable-threads'
     Specify that the target supports threads.  This affects the
     Objective-C compiler and runtime library, and exception handling
     for other languages like C++.  On some systems, this is the
     default.

     In general, the best (and, in many cases, the only known) threading
     model available will be configured for use.  Beware that on some
     systems, GCC has not been taught what threading models are
     generally available for the system.  In this case,
     '--enable-threads' is an alias for '--enable-threads=single'.

'--disable-threads'
     Specify that threading support should be disabled for the system.
     This is an alias for '--enable-threads=single'.

'--enable-threads=LIB'
     Specify that LIB is the thread support library.  This affects the
     Objective-C compiler and runtime library, and exception handling
     for other languages like C++.  The possibilities for LIB are:

     'aix'
          AIX thread support.
     'dce'
          DCE thread support.
     'lynx'
          LynxOS thread support.
     'mipssde'
          MIPS SDE thread support.
     'no'
          This is an alias for 'single'.
     'posix'
          Generic POSIX/Unix98 thread support.
     'rtems'
          RTEMS thread support.
     'single'
          Disable thread support, should work for all platforms.
     'tpf'
          TPF thread support.
     'vxworks'
          VxWorks thread support.
     'win32'
          Microsoft Win32 API thread support.

'--enable-tls'
     Specify that the target supports TLS (Thread Local Storage).
     Usually configure can correctly determine if TLS is supported.  In
     cases where it guesses incorrectly, TLS can be explicitly enabled
     or disabled with '--enable-tls' or '--disable-tls'.  This can
     happen if the assembler supports TLS but the C library does not, or
     if the assumptions made by the configure test are incorrect.

'--disable-tls'
     Specify that the target does not support TLS. This is an alias for
     '--enable-tls=no'.

'--with-cpu=CPU'
'--with-cpu-32=CPU'
'--with-cpu-64=CPU'
     Specify which cpu variant the compiler should generate code for by
     default.  CPU will be used as the default value of the '-mcpu='
     switch.  This option is only supported on some targets, including
     ARC, ARM, i386, M68k, PowerPC, and SPARC.  It is mandatory for ARC.
     The '--with-cpu-32' and '--with-cpu-64' options specify separate
     default CPUs for 32-bit and 64-bit modes; these options are only
     supported for i386, x86-64, PowerPC, and SPARC.

'--with-schedule=CPU'
'--with-arch=CPU'
'--with-arch-32=CPU'
'--with-arch-64=CPU'
'--with-tune=CPU'
'--with-tune-32=CPU'
'--with-tune-64=CPU'
'--with-abi=ABI'
'--with-fpu=TYPE'
'--with-float=TYPE'
     These configure options provide default values for the
     '-mschedule=', '-march=', '-mtune=', '-mabi=', and '-mfpu=' options
     and for '-mhard-float' or '-msoft-float'.  As with '--with-cpu',
     which switches will be accepted and acceptable values of the
     arguments depend on the target.

'--with-mode=MODE'
     Specify if the compiler should default to '-marm' or '-mthumb'.
     This option is only supported on ARM targets.

'--with-stack-offset=NUM'
     This option sets the default for the -mstack-offset=NUM option, and
     will thus generally also control the setting of this option for
     libraries.  This option is only supported on Epiphany targets.

'--with-fpmath=ISA'
     This options sets '-mfpmath=sse' by default and specifies the
     default ISA for floating-point arithmetics.  You can select either
     'sse' which enables '-msse2' or 'avx' which enables '-mavx' by
     default.  This option is only supported on i386 and x86-64 targets.

'--with-fp-32=MODE'
     On MIPS targets, set the default value for the '-mfp' option when
     using the o32 ABI. The possibilities for MODE are:
     '32'
          Use the o32 FP32 ABI extension, as with the '-mfp32'
          command-line option.
     'xx'
          Use the o32 FPXX ABI extension, as with the '-mfpxx'
          command-line option.
     '64'
          Use the o32 FP64 ABI extension, as with the '-mfp64'
          command-line option.
     In the absence of this configuration option the default is to use
     the o32 FP32 ABI extension.

'--with-odd-spreg-32'
     On MIPS targets, set the '-modd-spreg' option by default when using
     the o32 ABI.

'--without-odd-spreg-32'
     On MIPS targets, set the '-mno-odd-spreg' option by default when
     using the o32 ABI. This is normally used in conjunction with
     '--with-fp-32=64' in order to target the o32 FP64A ABI extension.

'--with-nan=ENCODING'
     On MIPS targets, set the default encoding convention to use for the
     special not-a-number (NaN) IEEE 754 floating-point data.  The
     possibilities for ENCODING are:
     'legacy'
          Use the legacy encoding, as with the '-mnan=legacy'
          command-line option.
     '2008'
          Use the 754-2008 encoding, as with the '-mnan=2008'
          command-line option.
     To use this configuration option you must have an assembler version
     installed that supports the '-mnan=' command-line option too.  In
     the absence of this configuration option the default convention is
     the legacy encoding, as when neither of the '-mnan=2008' and
     '-mnan=legacy' command-line options has been used.

'--with-divide=TYPE'
     Specify how the compiler should generate code for checking for
     division by zero.  This option is only supported on the MIPS
     target.  The possibilities for TYPE are:
     'traps'
          Division by zero checks use conditional traps (this is the
          default on systems that support conditional traps).
     'breaks'
          Division by zero checks use the break instruction.

'--with-llsc'
     On MIPS targets, make '-mllsc' the default when no '-mno-llsc'
     option is passed.  This is the default for Linux-based targets, as
     the kernel will emulate them if the ISA does not provide them.

'--without-llsc'
     On MIPS targets, make '-mno-llsc' the default when no '-mllsc'
     option is passed.

'--with-synci'
     On MIPS targets, make '-msynci' the default when no '-mno-synci'
     option is passed.

'--without-synci'
     On MIPS targets, make '-mno-synci' the default when no '-msynci'
     option is passed.  This is the default.

'--with-lxc1-sxc1'
     On MIPS targets, make '-mlxc1-sxc1' the default when no
     '-mno-lxc1-sxc1' option is passed.  This is the default.

'--without-lxc1-sxc1'
     On MIPS targets, make '-mno-lxc1-sxc1' the default when no
     '-mlxc1-sxc1' option is passed.  The indexed load/store
     instructions are not directly a problem but can lead to unexpected
     behaviour when deployed in an application intended for a 32-bit
     address space but run on a 64-bit processor.  The issue is seen
     because all known MIPS 64-bit Linux kernels execute o32 and n32
     applications with 64-bit addressing enabled which affects the
     overflow behaviour of the indexed addressing mode.  GCC will assume
     that ordinary 32-bit arithmetic overflow behaviour is the same
     whether performed as an 'addu' instruction or as part of the
     address calculation in 'lwxc1' type instructions.  This assumption
     holds true in a pure 32-bit environment and can hold true in a
     64-bit environment if the address space is accurately set to be
     32-bit for o32 and n32.

'--with-madd4'
     On MIPS targets, make '-mmadd4' the default when no '-mno-madd4'
     option is passed.  This is the default.

'--without-madd4'
     On MIPS targets, make '-mno-madd4' the default when no '-mmadd4'
     option is passed.  The 'madd4' instruction family can be
     problematic when targeting a combination of cores that implement
     these instructions differently.  There are two known cores that
     implement these as fused operations instead of unfused (where
     unfused is normally expected).  Disabling these instructions is the
     only way to ensure compatible code is generated; this will incur a
     performance penalty.

'--with-mips-plt'
     On MIPS targets, make use of copy relocations and PLTs.  These
     features are extensions to the traditional SVR4-based MIPS ABIs and
     require support from GNU binutils and the runtime C library.

'--with-stack-clash-protection-guard-size=SIZE'
     On certain targets this option sets the default stack clash
     protection guard size as a power of two in bytes.  On AArch64 SIZE
     is required to be either 12 (4KB) or 16 (64KB).

'--enable-__cxa_atexit'
     Define if you want to use __cxa_atexit, rather than atexit, to
     register C++ destructors for local statics and global objects.
     This is essential for fully standards-compliant handling of
     destructors, but requires __cxa_atexit in libc.  This option is
     currently only available on systems with GNU libc.  When enabled,
     this will cause '-fuse-cxa-atexit' to be passed by default.

'--enable-gnu-indirect-function'
     Define if you want to enable the 'ifunc' attribute.  This option is
     currently only available on systems with GNU libc on certain
     targets.

'--enable-target-optspace'
     Specify that target libraries should be optimized for code space
     instead of code speed.  This is the default for the m32r platform.

'--with-cpp-install-dir=DIRNAME'
     Specify that the user visible 'cpp' program should be installed in
     'PREFIX/DIRNAME/cpp', in addition to BINDIR.

'--enable-comdat'
     Enable COMDAT group support.  This is primarily used to override
     the automatically detected value.

'--enable-initfini-array'
     Force the use of sections '.init_array' and '.fini_array' (instead
     of '.init' and '.fini') for constructors and destructors.  Option
     '--disable-initfini-array' has the opposite effect.  If neither
     option is specified, the configure script will try to guess whether
     the '.init_array' and '.fini_array' sections are supported and, if
     they are, use them.

'--enable-link-mutex'
     When building GCC, use a mutex to avoid linking the compilers for
     multiple languages at the same time, to avoid thrashing on build
     systems with limited free memory.  The default is not to use such a
     mutex.

'--enable-maintainer-mode'
     The build rules that regenerate the Autoconf and Automake output
     files as well as the GCC master message catalog 'gcc.pot' are
     normally disabled.  This is because it can only be rebuilt if the
     complete source tree is present.  If you have changed the sources
     and want to rebuild the catalog, configuring with
     '--enable-maintainer-mode' will enable this.  Note that you need a
     recent version of the 'gettext' tools to do so.

'--disable-bootstrap'
     For a native build, the default configuration is to perform a
     3-stage bootstrap of the compiler when 'make' is invoked, testing
     that GCC can compile itself correctly.  If you want to disable this
     process, you can configure with '--disable-bootstrap'.

'--enable-bootstrap'
     In special cases, you may want to perform a 3-stage build even if
     the target and host triplets are different.  This is possible when
     the host can run code compiled for the target (e.g. host is
     i686-linux, target is i486-linux).  Starting from GCC 4.2, to do
     this you have to configure explicitly with '--enable-bootstrap'.

'--enable-generated-files-in-srcdir'
     Neither the .c and .h files that are generated from Bison and flex
     nor the info manuals and man pages that are built from the .texi
     files are present in the repository development tree.  When
     building GCC from that development tree, or from one of our
     snapshots, those generated files are placed in your build
     directory, which allows for the source to be in a readonly
     directory.

     If you configure with '--enable-generated-files-in-srcdir' then
     those generated files will go into the source directory.  This is
     mainly intended for generating release or prerelease tarballs of
     the GCC sources, since it is not a requirement that the users of
     source releases to have flex, Bison, or makeinfo.

'--enable-version-specific-runtime-libs'
     Specify that runtime libraries should be installed in the compiler
     specific subdirectory ('LIBDIR/gcc') rather than the usual places.
     In addition, 'libstdc++''s include files will be installed into
     'LIBDIR' unless you overruled it by using
     '--with-gxx-include-dir=DIRNAME'.  Using this option is
     particularly useful if you intend to use several versions of GCC in
     parallel.  This is currently supported by 'libgfortran',
     'libstdc++', and 'libobjc'.

'--with-aix-soname='aix', 'svr4' or 'both''
     Traditional AIX shared library versioning (versioned 'Shared
     Object' files as members of unversioned 'Archive Library' files
     named 'lib.a') causes numerous headaches for package managers.
     However, 'Import Files' as members of 'Archive Library' files allow
     for *filename-based versioning* of shared libraries as seen on
     Linux/SVR4, where this is called the "SONAME". But as they prevent
     static linking, 'Import Files' may be used with 'Runtime Linking'
     only, where the linker does search for 'libNAME.so' before
     'libNAME.a' library filenames with the '-lNAME' linker flag.

     For detailed information please refer to the AIX ld Command
     reference.

     As long as shared library creation is enabled, upon:
     '--with-aix-soname=aix'
     '--with-aix-soname=both'
          A (traditional AIX) 'Shared Archive Library' file is created:
             * using the 'libNAME.a' filename scheme
             * with the 'Shared Object' file as archive member named
               'libNAME.so.V' (except for 'libgcc_s', where the 'Shared
               Object' file is named 'shr.o' for backwards
               compatibility), which
                  - is used for runtime loading from inside the
                    'libNAME.a' file
                  - is used for dynamic loading via
                    'dlopen("libNAME.a(libNAME.so.V)", RTLD_MEMBER)'
                  - is used for shared linking
                  - is used for static linking, so no separate 'Static
                    Archive Library' file is needed
     '--with-aix-soname=both'
     '--with-aix-soname=svr4'
          A (second) 'Shared Archive Library' file is created:
             * using the 'libNAME.so.V' filename scheme
             * with the 'Shared Object' file as archive member named
               'shr.o', which
                  - is created with the '-G linker flag'
                  - has the 'F_LOADONLY' flag set
                  - is used for runtime loading from inside the
                    'libNAME.so.V' file
                  - is used for dynamic loading via
                    'dlopen("libNAME.so.V(shr.o)", RTLD_MEMBER)'
             * with the 'Import File' as archive member named 'shr.imp',
               which
                  - refers to 'libNAME.so.V(shr.o)' as the "SONAME", to
                    be recorded in the 'Loader Section' of subsequent
                    binaries
                  - indicates whether 'libNAME.so.V(shr.o)' is 32 or 64
                    bit
                  - lists all the public symbols exported by
                    'lib.so.V(shr.o)', eventually decorated with the
                    ''weak' Keyword'
                  - is necessary for shared linking against
                    'lib.so.V(shr.o)'
          A symbolic link using the 'libNAME.so' filename scheme is
          created:
             * pointing to the 'libNAME.so.V' 'Shared Archive Library'
               file
             * to permit the 'ld Command' to find 'lib.so.V(shr.imp)'
               via the '-lNAME' argument (requires 'Runtime Linking' to
               be enabled)
             * to permit dynamic loading of 'lib.so.V(shr.o)' without
               the need to specify the version number via
               'dlopen("libNAME.so(shr.o)", RTLD_MEMBER)'

     As long as static library creation is enabled, upon:
     '--with-aix-soname=svr4'
          A 'Static Archive Library' is created:
             * using the 'libNAME.a' filename scheme
             * with all the 'Static Object' files as archive members,
               which
                  - are used for static linking

     While the aix-soname='svr4' option does not create 'Shared Object'
     files as members of unversioned 'Archive Library' files any more,
     package managers still are responsible to transfer 'Shared Object'
     files found as member of a previously installed unversioned
     'Archive Library' file into the newly installed 'Archive Library'
     file with the same filename.

     _WARNING:_ Creating 'Shared Object' files with 'Runtime Linking'
     enabled may bloat the TOC, eventually leading to 'TOC overflow'
     errors, requiring the use of either the '-Wl,-bbigtoc' linker flag
     (seen to break with the 'GDB' debugger) or some of the TOC-related
     compiler flags, *Note RS/6000 and PowerPC Options: (gcc)RS/6000 and
     PowerPC Options.

     '--with-aix-soname' is currently supported by 'libgcc_s' only, so
     this option is still experimental and not for normal use yet.

     Default is the traditional behavior '--with-aix-soname='aix''.

'--enable-languages=LANG1,LANG2,...'
     Specify that only a particular subset of compilers and their
     runtime libraries should be built.  For a list of valid values for
     LANGN you can issue the following command in the 'gcc' directory of
     your GCC source tree:
          grep ^language= */config-lang.in
     Currently, you can use any of the following: 'all', 'default',
     'ada', 'c', 'c++', 'd', 'fortran', 'go', 'jit', 'lto', 'objc',
     'obj-c++'.  Building the Ada compiler has special requirements, see
     below.  If you do not pass this flag, or specify the option
     'default', then the default languages available in the 'gcc'
     sub-tree will be configured.  Ada, D, Go, Jit, and Objective-C++
     are not default languages.  LTO is not a default language, but is
     built by default because '--enable-lto' is enabled by default.  The
     other languages are default languages.  If 'all' is specified, then
     all available languages are built.  An exception is 'jit' language,
     which requires '--enable-host-shared' to be included with 'all'.

'--enable-stage1-languages=LANG1,LANG2,...'
     Specify that a particular subset of compilers and their runtime
     libraries should be built with the system C compiler during stage 1
     of the bootstrap process, rather than only in later stages with the
     bootstrapped C compiler.  The list of valid values is the same as
     for '--enable-languages', and the option 'all' will select all of
     the languages enabled by '--enable-languages'.  This option is
     primarily useful for GCC development; for instance, when a
     development version of the compiler cannot bootstrap due to
     compiler bugs, or when one is debugging front ends other than the C
     front end.  When this option is used, one can then build the target
     libraries for the specified languages with the stage-1 compiler by
     using 'make stage1-bubble all-target', or run the testsuite on the
     stage-1 compiler for the specified languages using 'make
     stage1-start check-gcc'.

'--disable-libada'
     Specify that the run-time libraries and tools used by GNAT should
     not be built.  This can be useful for debugging, or for
     compatibility with previous Ada build procedures, when it was
     required to explicitly do a 'make -C gcc gnatlib_and_tools'.

'--disable-libsanitizer'
     Specify that the run-time libraries for the various sanitizers
     should not be built.

'--disable-libssp'
     Specify that the run-time libraries for stack smashing protection
     should not be built or linked against.  On many targets library
     support is provided by the C library instead.

'--disable-libquadmath'
     Specify that the GCC quad-precision math library should not be
     built.  On some systems, the library is required to be linkable
     when building the Fortran front end, unless
     '--disable-libquadmath-support' is used.

'--disable-libquadmath-support'
     Specify that the Fortran front end and 'libgfortran' do not add
     support for 'libquadmath' on systems supporting it.

'--disable-libgomp'
     Specify that the GNU Offloading and Multi Processing Runtime
     Library should not be built.

'--disable-libvtv'
     Specify that the run-time libraries used by vtable verification
     should not be built.

'--with-dwarf2'
     Specify that the compiler should use DWARF 2 debugging information
     as the default.

'--with-advance-toolchain=AT'
     On 64-bit PowerPC Linux systems, configure the compiler to use the
     header files, library files, and the dynamic linker from the
     Advance Toolchain release AT instead of the default versions that
     are provided by the Linux distribution.  In general, this option is
     intended for the developers of GCC, and it is not intended for
     general use.

'--enable-targets=all'
'--enable-targets=TARGET_LIST'
     Some GCC targets, e.g. powerpc64-linux, build bi-arch compilers.
     These are compilers that are able to generate either 64-bit or
     32-bit code.  Typically, the corresponding 32-bit target, e.g.
     powerpc-linux for powerpc64-linux, only generates 32-bit code.
     This option enables the 32-bit target to be a bi-arch compiler,
     which is useful when you want a bi-arch compiler that defaults to
     32-bit, and you are building a bi-arch or multi-arch binutils in a
     combined tree.  On mips-linux, this will build a tri-arch compiler
     (ABI o32/n32/64), defaulted to o32.  Currently, this option only
     affects sparc-linux, powerpc-linux, x86-linux, mips-linux and
     s390-linux.

'--enable-default-pie'
     Turn on '-fPIE' and '-pie' by default.

'--enable-secureplt'
     This option enables '-msecure-plt' by default for powerpc-linux.
     *Note RS/6000 and PowerPC Options: (gcc)RS/6000 and PowerPC
     Options,

'--enable-default-ssp'
     Turn on '-fstack-protector-strong' by default.

'--enable-cld'
     This option enables '-mcld' by default for 32-bit x86 targets.
     *Note i386 and x86-64 Options: (gcc)i386 and x86-64 Options,

'--enable-large-address-aware'
     The '--enable-large-address-aware' option arranges for MinGW
     executables to be linked using the '--large-address-aware' option,
     that enables the use of more than 2GB of memory.  If GCC is
     configured with this option, its effects can be reversed by passing
     the '-Wl,--disable-large-address-aware' option to the so-configured
     compiler driver.

'--enable-win32-registry'
'--enable-win32-registry=KEY'
'--disable-win32-registry'
     The '--enable-win32-registry' option enables Microsoft
     Windows-hosted GCC to look up installations paths in the registry
     using the following key:

          HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Free Software Foundation\KEY

     KEY defaults to GCC version number, and can be overridden by the
     '--enable-win32-registry=KEY' option.  Vendors and distributors who
     use custom installers are encouraged to provide a different key,
     perhaps one comprised of vendor name and GCC version number, to
     avoid conflict with existing installations.  This feature is
     enabled by default, and can be disabled by
     '--disable-win32-registry' option.  This option has no effect on
     the other hosts.

'--nfp'
     Specify that the machine does not have a floating point unit.  This
     option only applies to 'm68k-sun-sunosN'.  On any other system,
     '--nfp' has no effect.

'--enable-werror'
'--disable-werror'
'--enable-werror=yes'
'--enable-werror=no'
     When you specify this option, it controls whether certain files in
     the compiler are built with '-Werror' in bootstrap stage2 and
     later.  If you don't specify it, '-Werror' is turned on for the
     main development trunk.  However it defaults to off for release
     branches and final releases.  The specific files which get
     '-Werror' are controlled by the Makefiles.

'--enable-checking'
'--disable-checking'
'--enable-checking=LIST'
     This option controls performing internal consistency checks in the
     compiler.  It does not change the generated code, but adds error
     checking of the requested complexity.  This slows down the compiler
     and may only work properly if you are building the compiler with
     GCC.

     When the option is not specified, the active set of checks depends
     on context.  Namely, bootstrap stage 1 defaults to
     '--enable-checking=yes', builds from release branches or release
     archives default to '--enable-checking=release', and otherwise
     '--enable-checking=yes,extra' is used.  When the option is
     specified without a LIST, the result is the same as
     '--enable-checking=yes'.  Likewise, '--disable-checking' is
     equivalent to '--enable-checking=no'.

     The categories of checks available in LIST are 'yes' (most common
     checks 'assert,misc,gc,gimple,rtlflag,runtime,tree,types'), 'no'
     (no checks at all), 'all' (all but 'valgrind'), 'release' (cheapest
     checks 'assert,runtime') or 'none' (same as 'no').  'release'
     checks are always on and to disable them '--disable-checking' or
     '--enable-checking=no[,<other checks>]' must be explicitly
     requested.  Disabling assertions makes the compiler and runtime
     slightly faster but increases the risk of undetected internal
     errors causing wrong code to be generated.

     Individual checks can be enabled with these flags: 'assert', 'df',
     'extra', 'fold', 'gc', 'gcac', 'gimple', 'misc', 'rtl', 'rtlflag',
     'runtime', 'tree', 'types' and 'valgrind'.  'extra' extends 'misc'
     checking with extra checks that might affect code generation and
     should therefore not differ between stage1 and later stages in
     bootstrap.

     The 'valgrind' check requires the external 'valgrind' simulator,
     available from <http://valgrind.org/>.  The 'rtl' checks are
     expensive and the 'df', 'gcac' and 'valgrind' checks are very
     expensive.

'--disable-stage1-checking'
'--enable-stage1-checking'
'--enable-stage1-checking=LIST'
     This option affects only bootstrap build.  If no
     '--enable-checking' option is specified the stage1 compiler is
     built with 'yes' checking enabled, otherwise the stage1 checking
     flags are the same as specified by '--enable-checking'.  To build
     the stage1 compiler with different checking options use
     '--enable-stage1-checking'.  The list of checking options is the
     same as for '--enable-checking'.  If your system is too slow or too
     small to bootstrap a released compiler with checking for stage1
     enabled, you can use '--disable-stage1-checking' to disable
     checking for the stage1 compiler.

'--enable-coverage'
'--enable-coverage=LEVEL'
     With this option, the compiler is built to collect self coverage
     information, every time it is run.  This is for internal
     development purposes, and only works when the compiler is being
     built with gcc.  The LEVEL argument controls whether the compiler
     is built optimized or not, values are 'opt' and 'noopt'.  For
     coverage analysis you want to disable optimization, for performance
     analysis you want to enable optimization.  When coverage is
     enabled, the default level is without optimization.

'--enable-gather-detailed-mem-stats'
     When this option is specified more detailed information on memory
     allocation is gathered.  This information is printed when using
     '-fmem-report'.

'--enable-valgrind-annotations'
     Mark selected memory related operations in the compiler when run
     under valgrind to suppress false positives.

'--enable-nls'
'--disable-nls'
     The '--enable-nls' option enables Native Language Support (NLS),
     which lets GCC output diagnostics in languages other than American
     English.  Native Language Support is enabled by default if not
     doing a canadian cross build.  The '--disable-nls' option disables
     NLS.

'--with-included-gettext'
     If NLS is enabled, the '--with-included-gettext' option causes the
     build procedure to prefer its copy of GNU 'gettext'.

'--with-catgets'
     If NLS is enabled, and if the host lacks 'gettext' but has the
     inferior 'catgets' interface, the GCC build procedure normally
     ignores 'catgets' and instead uses GCC's copy of the GNU 'gettext'
     library.  The '--with-catgets' option causes the build procedure to
     use the host's 'catgets' in this situation.

'--with-libiconv-prefix=DIR'
     Search for libiconv header files in 'DIR/include' and libiconv
     library files in 'DIR/lib'.

'--enable-obsolete'
     Enable configuration for an obsoleted system.  If you attempt to
     configure GCC for a system (build, host, or target) which has been
     obsoleted, and you do not specify this flag, configure will halt
     with an error message.

     All support for systems which have been obsoleted in one release of
     GCC is removed entirely in the next major release, unless someone
     steps forward to maintain the port.

'--enable-decimal-float'
'--enable-decimal-float=yes'
'--enable-decimal-float=no'
'--enable-decimal-float=bid'
'--enable-decimal-float=dpd'
'--disable-decimal-float'
     Enable (or disable) support for the C decimal floating point
     extension that is in the IEEE 754-2008 standard.  This is enabled
     by default only on PowerPC, i386, and x86_64 GNU/Linux systems.
     Other systems may also support it, but require the user to
     specifically enable it.  You can optionally control which decimal
     floating point format is used (either 'bid' or 'dpd').  The 'bid'
     (binary integer decimal) format is default on i386 and x86_64
     systems, and the 'dpd' (densely packed decimal) format is default
     on PowerPC systems.

'--enable-fixed-point'
'--disable-fixed-point'
     Enable (or disable) support for C fixed-point arithmetic.  This
     option is enabled by default for some targets (such as MIPS) which
     have hardware-support for fixed-point operations.  On other
     targets, you may enable this option manually.

'--with-long-double-128'
     Specify if 'long double' type should be 128-bit by default on
     selected GNU/Linux architectures.  If using
     '--without-long-double-128', 'long double' will be by default
     64-bit, the same as 'double' type.  When neither of these configure
     options are used, the default will be 128-bit 'long double' when
     built against GNU C Library 2.4 and later, 64-bit 'long double'
     otherwise.

'--with-long-double-format=ibm'
'--with-long-double-format=ieee'
     Specify whether 'long double' uses the IBM extended double format
     or the IEEE 128-bit floating point format on PowerPC Linux systems.
     This configuration switch will only work on little endian PowerPC
     Linux systems and on big endian 64-bit systems where the default
     cpu is at least power7 (i.e. '--with-cpu=power7',
     '--with-cpu=power8', or '--with-cpu=power9' is used).

     If you use the '--with-long-double-64' configuration option, the
     '--with-long-double-format=ibm' and
     '--with-long-double-format=ieee' options are ignored.

     The default 'long double' format is to use IBM extended double.
     Until all of the libraries are converted to use IEEE 128-bit
     floating point, it is not recommended to use
     '--with-long-double-format=ieee'.

     On little endian PowerPC Linux systems, if you explicitly set the
     'long double' type, it will build multilibs to allow you to select
     either 'long double' format, unless you disable multilibs with the
     '--disable-multilib' option.  At present, 'long double' multilibs
     are not built on big endian PowerPC Linux systems.  If you are
     building multilibs, you will need to configure the compiler using
     the '--with-system-zlib' option.

     If you do not set the 'long double' type explicitly, no multilibs
     will be generated.

'--enable-fdpic'
     On SH Linux systems, generate ELF FDPIC code.

'--with-gmp=PATHNAME'
'--with-gmp-include=PATHNAME'
'--with-gmp-lib=PATHNAME'
'--with-mpfr=PATHNAME'
'--with-mpfr-include=PATHNAME'
'--with-mpfr-lib=PATHNAME'
'--with-mpc=PATHNAME'
'--with-mpc-include=PATHNAME'
'--with-mpc-lib=PATHNAME'
     If you want to build GCC but do not have the GMP library, the MPFR
     library and/or the MPC library installed in a standard location and
     do not have their sources present in the GCC source tree then you
     can explicitly specify the directory where they are installed
     ('--with-gmp=GMPINSTALLDIR', '--with-mpfr=MPFRINSTALLDIR',
     '--with-mpc=MPCINSTALLDIR').  The '--with-gmp=GMPINSTALLDIR' option
     is shorthand for '--with-gmp-lib=GMPINSTALLDIR/lib' and
     '--with-gmp-include=GMPINSTALLDIR/include'.  Likewise the
     '--with-mpfr=MPFRINSTALLDIR' option is shorthand for
     '--with-mpfr-lib=MPFRINSTALLDIR/lib' and
     '--with-mpfr-include=MPFRINSTALLDIR/include', also the
     '--with-mpc=MPCINSTALLDIR' option is shorthand for
     '--with-mpc-lib=MPCINSTALLDIR/lib' and
     '--with-mpc-include=MPCINSTALLDIR/include'.  If these shorthand
     assumptions are not correct, you can use the explicit include and
     lib options directly.  You might also need to ensure the shared
     libraries can be found by the dynamic linker when building and
     using GCC, for example by setting the runtime shared library path
     variable ('LD_LIBRARY_PATH' on GNU/Linux and Solaris systems).

     These flags are applicable to the host platform only.  When
     building a cross compiler, they will not be used to configure
     target libraries.

'--with-isl=PATHNAME'
'--with-isl-include=PATHNAME'
'--with-isl-lib=PATHNAME'
     If you do not have the isl library installed in a standard location
     and you want to build GCC, you can explicitly specify the directory
     where it is installed ('--with-isl=ISLINSTALLDIR').  The
     '--with-isl=ISLINSTALLDIR' option is shorthand for
     '--with-isl-lib=ISLINSTALLDIR/lib' and
     '--with-isl-include=ISLINSTALLDIR/include'.  If this shorthand
     assumption is not correct, you can use the explicit include and lib
     options directly.

     These flags are applicable to the host platform only.  When
     building a cross compiler, they will not be used to configure
     target libraries.

'--with-stage1-ldflags=FLAGS'
     This option may be used to set linker flags to be used when linking
     stage 1 of GCC. These are also used when linking GCC if configured
     with '--disable-bootstrap'.  If '--with-stage1-libs' is not set to
     a value, then the default is '-static-libstdc++ -static-libgcc', if
     supported.

'--with-stage1-libs=LIBS'
     This option may be used to set libraries to be used when linking
     stage 1 of GCC. These are also used when linking GCC if configured
     with '--disable-bootstrap'.

'--with-boot-ldflags=FLAGS'
     This option may be used to set linker flags to be used when linking
     stage 2 and later when bootstrapping GCC. If -with-boot-libs is not
     is set to a value, then the default is '-static-libstdc++
     -static-libgcc'.

'--with-boot-libs=LIBS'
     This option may be used to set libraries to be used when linking
     stage 2 and later when bootstrapping GCC.

'--with-debug-prefix-map=MAP'
     Convert source directory names using '-fdebug-prefix-map' when
     building runtime libraries.  'MAP' is a space-separated list of
     maps of the form 'OLD=NEW'.

'--enable-linker-build-id'
     Tells GCC to pass '--build-id' option to the linker for all final
     links (links performed without the '-r' or '--relocatable' option),
     if the linker supports it.  If you specify
     '--enable-linker-build-id', but your linker does not support
     '--build-id' option, a warning is issued and the
     '--enable-linker-build-id' option is ignored.  The default is off.

'--with-linker-hash-style=CHOICE'
     Tells GCC to pass '--hash-style=CHOICE' option to the linker for
     all final links.  CHOICE can be one of 'sysv', 'gnu', and 'both'
     where 'sysv' is the default.

'--enable-gnu-unique-object'
'--disable-gnu-unique-object'
     Tells GCC to use the gnu_unique_object relocation for C++ template
     static data members and inline function local statics.  Enabled by
     default for a toolchain with an assembler that accepts it and GLIBC
     2.11 or above, otherwise disabled.

'--with-diagnostics-color=CHOICE'
     Tells GCC to use CHOICE as the default for '-fdiagnostics-color='
     option (if not used explicitly on the command line).  CHOICE can be
     one of 'never', 'auto', 'always', and 'auto-if-env' where 'auto' is
     the default.  'auto-if-env' means that '-fdiagnostics-color=auto'
     will be the default if 'GCC_COLORS' is present and non-empty in the
     environment, and '-fdiagnostics-color=never' otherwise.

'--enable-lto'
'--disable-lto'
     Enable support for link-time optimization (LTO). This is enabled by
     default, and may be disabled using '--disable-lto'.

'--enable-linker-plugin-configure-flags=FLAGS'
'--enable-linker-plugin-flags=FLAGS'
     By default, linker plugins (such as the LTO plugin) are built for
     the host system architecture.  For the case that the linker has a
     different (but run-time compatible) architecture, these flags can
     be specified to build plugins that are compatible to the linker.
     For example, if you are building GCC for a 64-bit x86_64
     ('x86_64-pc-linux-gnu') host system, but have a 32-bit x86
     GNU/Linux ('i686-pc-linux-gnu') linker executable (which is
     executable on the former system), you can configure GCC as follows
     for getting compatible linker plugins:

          % SRCDIR/configure \
              --host=x86_64-pc-linux-gnu \
              --enable-linker-plugin-configure-flags=--host=i686-pc-linux-gnu \
              --enable-linker-plugin-flags='CC=gcc\ -m32\ -Wl,-rpath,[...]/i686-pc-linux-gnu/lib'

'--with-plugin-ld=PATHNAME'
     Enable an alternate linker to be used at link-time optimization
     (LTO) link time when '-fuse-linker-plugin' is enabled.  This linker
     should have plugin support such as gold starting with version 2.20
     or GNU ld starting with version 2.21.  See '-fuse-linker-plugin'
     for details.

'--enable-canonical-system-headers'
'--disable-canonical-system-headers'
     Enable system header path canonicalization for 'libcpp'.  This can
     produce shorter header file paths in diagnostics and dependency
     output files, but these changed header paths may conflict with some
     compilation environments.  Enabled by default, and may be disabled
     using '--disable-canonical-system-headers'.

'--with-glibc-version=MAJOR.MINOR'
     Tell GCC that when the GNU C Library (glibc) is used on the target
     it will be version MAJOR.MINOR or later.  Normally this can be
     detected from the C library's header files, but this option may be
     needed when bootstrapping a cross toolchain without the header
     files available for building the initial bootstrap compiler.

     If GCC is configured with some multilibs that use glibc and some
     that do not, this option applies only to the multilibs that use
     glibc.  However, such configurations may not work well as not all
     the relevant configuration in GCC is on a per-multilib basis.

'--enable-as-accelerator-for=TARGET'
     Build as offload target compiler.  Specify offload host triple by
     TARGET.

'--enable-offload-targets=TARGET1[=PATH1],...,TARGETN[=PATHN]'
     Enable offloading to targets TARGET1, ..., TARGETN.  Offload
     compilers are expected to be already installed.  Default search
     path for them is 'EXEC-PREFIX', but it can be changed by specifying
     paths PATH1, ..., PATHN.

          % SRCDIR/configure \
              --enable-offload-targets=x86_64-intelmicemul-linux-gnu=/path/to/x86_64/compiler,nvptx-none,hsa

     If 'hsa' is specified as one of the targets, the compiler will be
     built with support for HSA GPU accelerators.  Because the same
     compiler will emit the accelerator code, no path should be
     specified.

'--with-hsa-runtime=PATHNAME'
'--with-hsa-runtime-include=PATHNAME'
'--with-hsa-runtime-lib=PATHNAME'

     If you configure GCC with HSA offloading but do not have the HSA
     run-time library installed in a standard location then you can
     explicitly specify the directory where they are installed.  The
     '--with-hsa-runtime=HSAINSTALLDIR' option is a shorthand for
     '--with-hsa-runtime-lib=HSAINSTALLDIR/lib' and
     '--with-hsa-runtime-include=HSAINSTALLDIR/include'.

'--enable-cet'
'--disable-cet'
     Enable building target run-time libraries with control-flow
     instrumentation, see '-fcf-protection' option.  When '--enable-cet'
     is specified target libraries are configured to add
     '-fcf-protection' and, if needed, other target specific options to
     a set of building options.

     The option is disabled by default.  When '--enable-cet=auto' is
     used, it is enabled on Linux/x86 if target binutils supports 'Intel
     CET' instructions and disabled otherwise.  In this case the target
     libraries are configured to get additional '-fcf-protection'
     option.

'--with-riscv-attribute='yes', 'no' or 'default''
     Generate RISC-V attribute by default, in order to record extra
     build information in object.

     The option is disabled by default.  It is enabled on RISC-V/ELF
     (bare-metal) target if target binutils supported.

Cross-Compiler-Specific Options
-------------------------------

The following options only apply to building cross compilers.

'--with-sysroot'
'--with-sysroot=DIR'
     Tells GCC to consider DIR as the root of a tree that contains (a
     subset of) the root filesystem of the target operating system.
     Target system headers, libraries and run-time object files will be
     searched for in there.  More specifically, this acts as if
     '--sysroot=DIR' was added to the default options of the built
     compiler.  The specified directory is not copied into the install
     tree, unlike the options '--with-headers' and '--with-libs' that
     this option obsoletes.  The default value, in case '--with-sysroot'
     is not given an argument, is '${gcc_tooldir}/sys-root'.  If the
     specified directory is a subdirectory of '${exec_prefix}', then it
     will be found relative to the GCC binaries if the installation tree
     is moved.

     This option affects the system root for the compiler used to build
     target libraries (which runs on the build system) and the compiler
     newly installed with 'make install'; it does not affect the
     compiler which is used to build GCC itself.

     If you specify the '--with-native-system-header-dir=DIRNAME' option
     then the compiler will search that directory within DIRNAME for
     native system headers rather than the default '/usr/include'.

'--with-build-sysroot'
'--with-build-sysroot=DIR'
     Tells GCC to consider DIR as the system root (see '--with-sysroot')
     while building target libraries, instead of the directory specified
     with '--with-sysroot'.  This option is only useful when you are
     already using '--with-sysroot'.  You can use '--with-build-sysroot'
     when you are configuring with '--prefix' set to a directory that is
     different from the one in which you are installing GCC and your
     target libraries.

     This option affects the system root for the compiler used to build
     target libraries (which runs on the build system); it does not
     affect the compiler which is used to build GCC itself.

     If you specify the '--with-native-system-header-dir=DIRNAME' option
     then the compiler will search that directory within DIRNAME for
     native system headers rather than the default '/usr/include'.

'--with-headers'
'--with-headers=DIR'
     Deprecated in favor of '--with-sysroot'.  Specifies that target
     headers are available when building a cross compiler.  The DIR
     argument specifies a directory which has the target include files.
     These include files will be copied into the 'gcc' install
     directory.  _This option with the DIR argument is required_ when
     building a cross compiler, if 'PREFIX/TARGET/sys-include' doesn't
     pre-exist.  If 'PREFIX/TARGET/sys-include' does pre-exist, the DIR
     argument may be omitted.  'fixincludes' will be run on these files
     to make them compatible with GCC.

'--without-headers'
     Tells GCC not use any target headers from a libc when building a
     cross compiler.  When crossing to GNU/Linux, you need the headers
     so GCC can build the exception handling for libgcc.

'--with-libs'
'--with-libs="DIR1 DIR2 ... DIRN"'
     Deprecated in favor of '--with-sysroot'.  Specifies a list of
     directories which contain the target runtime libraries.  These
     libraries will be copied into the 'gcc' install directory.  If the
     directory list is omitted, this option has no effect.

'--with-newlib'
     Specifies that 'newlib' is being used as the target C library.
     This causes '__eprintf' to be omitted from 'libgcc.a' on the
     assumption that it will be provided by 'newlib'.

'--with-avrlibc'
     Specifies that 'AVR-Libc' is being used as the target C library.
     This causes float support functions like '__addsf3' to be omitted
     from 'libgcc.a' on the assumption that it will be provided by
     'libm.a'.  For more technical details, cf.  PR54461.  This option
     is only supported for the AVR target.  It is not supported for
     RTEMS configurations, which currently use newlib.  The option is
     supported since version 4.7.2 and is the default in 4.8.0 and
     newer.

'--with-nds32-lib=LIBRARY'
     Specifies that LIBRARY setting is used for building 'libgcc.a'.
     Currently, the valid LIBRARY is 'newlib' or 'mculib'.  This option
     is only supported for the NDS32 target.

'--with-build-time-tools=DIR'
     Specifies where to find the set of target tools (assembler, linker,
     etc.)  that will be used while building GCC itself.  This option
     can be useful if the directory layouts are different between the
     system you are building GCC on, and the system where you will
     deploy it.

     For example, on an 'ia64-hp-hpux' system, you may have the GNU
     assembler and linker in '/usr/bin', and the native tools in a
     different path, and build a toolchain that expects to find the
     native tools in '/usr/bin'.

     When you use this option, you should ensure that DIR includes 'ar',
     'as', 'ld', 'nm', 'ranlib' and 'strip' if necessary, and possibly
     'objdump'.  Otherwise, GCC may use an inconsistent set of tools.

Overriding 'configure' test results
...................................

Sometimes, it might be necessary to override the result of some
'configure' test, for example in order to ease porting to a new system
or work around a bug in a test.  The toplevel 'configure' script
provides three variables for this:

'build_configargs'
     The contents of this variable is passed to all build 'configure'
     scripts.

'host_configargs'
     The contents of this variable is passed to all host 'configure'
     scripts.

'target_configargs'
     The contents of this variable is passed to all target 'configure'
     scripts.

   In order to avoid shell and 'make' quoting issues for complex
overrides, you can pass a setting for 'CONFIG_SITE' and set variables in
the site file.

Objective-C-Specific Options
----------------------------

The following options apply to the build of the Objective-C runtime
library.

'--enable-objc-gc'
     Specify that an additional variant of the GNU Objective-C runtime
     library is built, using an external build of the
     Boehm-Demers-Weiser garbage collector
     (<http://www.hboehm.info/gc/>).  This library needs to be available
     for each multilib variant, unless configured with
     '--enable-objc-gc='auto'' in which case the build of the additional
     runtime library is skipped when not available and the build
     continues.

'--with-target-bdw-gc=LIST'
'--with-target-bdw-gc-include=LIST'
'--with-target-bdw-gc-lib=LIST'
     Specify search directories for the garbage collector header files
     and libraries.  LIST is a comma separated list of key value pairs
     of the form 'MULTILIBDIR=PATH', where the default multilib key is
     named as '.' (dot), or is omitted (e.g.
     '--with-target-bdw-gc=/opt/bdw-gc,32=/opt-bdw-gc32').

     The options '--with-target-bdw-gc-include' and
     '--with-target-bdw-gc-lib' must always be specified together for
     each multilib variant and they take precedence over
     '--with-target-bdw-gc'.  If '--with-target-bdw-gc-include' is
     missing values for a multilib, then the value for the default
     multilib is used (e.g.
     '--with-target-bdw-gc-include=/opt/bdw-gc/include'
     '--with-target-bdw-gc-lib=/opt/bdw-gc/lib64,32=/opt-bdw-gc/lib32').
     If none of these options are specified, the library is assumed in
     default locations.

D-Specific Options
------------------

The following options apply to the build of the D runtime library.

'--with-target-system-zlib'
     Use installed 'zlib' rather than that included with GCC.  This
     needs to be available for each multilib variant, unless configured
     with '--with-target-system-zlib='auto'' in which case the
     GCC included 'zlib' is only used when the system installed library
     is not available.

File: gccinstall.info,  Node: Building,  Next: Testing,  Prev: Configuration,  Up: Installing GCC

