hppa*-hp-hpux11
===============

GCC 3.0 and up support HP-UX 11.  GCC 2.95.x is not supported and cannot
be used to compile GCC 3.0 and up.

   The libffi library haven't been ported to 64-bit HP-UX and doesn't
build.

   Refer to binaries for information about obtaining precompiled GCC
binaries for HP-UX.  Precompiled binaries must be obtained to build the
Ada language as it cannot be bootstrapped using C.  Ada is only
available for the 32-bit PA-RISC runtime.

   Starting with GCC 3.4 an ISO C compiler is required to bootstrap.
The bundled compiler supports only traditional C; you will need either
HP's unbundled compiler, or a binary distribution of GCC.

   It is possible to build GCC 3.3 starting with the bundled HP
compiler, but the process requires several steps.  GCC 3.3 can then be
used to build later versions.

   There are several possible approaches to building the distribution.
Binutils can be built first using the HP tools.  Then, the GCC
distribution can be built.  The second approach is to build GCC first
using the HP tools, then build binutils, then rebuild GCC.  There have
been problems with various binary distributions, so it is best not to
start from a binary distribution.

   On 64-bit capable systems, there are two distinct targets.  Different
installation prefixes must be used if both are to be installed on the
same system.  The 'hppa[1-2]*-hp-hpux11*' target generates code for the
32-bit PA-RISC runtime architecture and uses the HP linker.  The
'hppa64-hp-hpux11*' target generates 64-bit code for the PA-RISC 2.0
architecture.

   The script config.guess now selects the target type based on the
compiler detected during configuration.  You must define 'PATH' or 'CC'
so that configure finds an appropriate compiler for the initial
bootstrap.  When 'CC' is used, the definition should contain the options
that are needed whenever 'CC' is used.

   Specifically, options that determine the runtime architecture must be
in 'CC' to correctly select the target for the build.  It is also
convenient to place many other compiler options in 'CC'.  For example,
'CC="cc -Ac +DA2.0W -Wp,-H16376 -D_CLASSIC_TYPES -D_HPUX_SOURCE"' can be
used to bootstrap the GCC 3.3 branch with the HP compiler in 64-bit
K&R/bundled mode.  The '+DA2.0W' option will result in the automatic
selection of the 'hppa64-hp-hpux11*' target.  The macro definition table
of cpp needs to be increased for a successful build with the HP
compiler.  _CLASSIC_TYPES and _HPUX_SOURCE need to be defined when
building with the bundled compiler, or when using the '-Ac' option.
These defines aren't necessary with '-Ae'.

   It is best to explicitly configure the 'hppa64-hp-hpux11*' target
with the '--with-ld=...' option.  This overrides the standard search for
ld.  The two linkers supported on this target require different
commands.  The default linker is determined during configuration.  As a
result, it's not possible to switch linkers in the middle of a GCC
build.  This has been reported to sometimes occur in unified builds of
binutils and GCC.

   A recent linker patch must be installed for the correct operation of
GCC 3.3 and later.  'PHSS_26559' and 'PHSS_24304' are the oldest linker
patches that are known to work.  They are for HP-UX 11.00 and 11.11,
respectively.  'PHSS_24303', the companion to 'PHSS_24304', might be
usable but it hasn't been tested.  These patches have been superseded.
Consult the HP patch database to obtain the currently recommended linker
patch for your system.

   The patches are necessary for the support of weak symbols on the
32-bit port, and for the running of initializers and finalizers.  Weak
symbols are implemented using SOM secondary definition symbols.  Prior
to HP-UX 11, there are bugs in the linker support for secondary symbols.
The patches correct a problem of linker core dumps creating shared
libraries containing secondary symbols, as well as various other linking
issues involving secondary symbols.

   GCC 3.3 uses the ELF DT_INIT_ARRAY and DT_FINI_ARRAY capabilities to
run initializers and finalizers on the 64-bit port.  The 32-bit port
uses the linker '+init' and '+fini' options for the same purpose.  The
patches correct various problems with the +init/+fini options, including
program core dumps.  Binutils 2.14 corrects a problem on the 64-bit port
resulting from HP's non-standard use of the .init and .fini sections for
array initializers and finalizers.

   Although the HP and GNU linkers are both supported for the
'hppa64-hp-hpux11*' target, it is strongly recommended that the HP
linker be used for link editing on this target.

   At this time, the GNU linker does not support the creation of long
branch stubs.  As a result, it cannot successfully link binaries
containing branch offsets larger than 8 megabytes.  In addition, there
are problems linking shared libraries, linking executables with
'-static', and with dwarf2 unwind and exception support.  It also
doesn't provide stubs for internal calls to global functions in shared
libraries, so these calls cannot be overloaded.

   The HP dynamic loader does not support GNU symbol versioning, so
symbol versioning is not supported.  It may be necessary to disable
symbol versioning with '--disable-symvers' when using GNU ld.

   POSIX threads are the default.  The optional DCE thread library is
not supported, so '--enable-threads=dce' does not work.

