Older systems
=============

GCC contains support files for many older (1980s and early 1990s) Unix
variants.  For the most part, support for these systems has not been
deliberately removed, but it has not been maintained for several years
and may suffer from bitrot.

   Starting with GCC 3.1, each release has a list of "obsoleted"
systems.  Support for these systems is still present in that release,
but 'configure' will fail unless the '--enable-obsolete' option is
given.  Unless a maintainer steps forward, support for these systems
will be removed from the next release of GCC.

   Support for old systems as hosts for GCC can cause problems if the
workarounds for compiler, library and operating system bugs affect the
cleanliness or maintainability of the rest of GCC.  In some cases, to
bring GCC up on such a system, if still possible with current GCC, may
require first installing an old version of GCC which did work on that
system, and using it to compile a more recent GCC, to avoid bugs in the
vendor compiler.  Old releases of GCC 1 and GCC 2 are available in the
'old-releases' directory on the GCC mirror sites.  Header bugs may
generally be avoided using 'fixincludes', but bugs or deficiencies in
libraries and the operating system may still cause problems.

   Support for older systems as targets for cross-compilation is less
problematic than support for them as hosts for GCC; if an enthusiast
wishes to make such a target work again (including resurrecting any of
the targets that never worked with GCC 2, starting from the last version
before they were removed), patches following the usual requirements
would be likely to be accepted, since they should not affect the support
for more modern targets.

   For some systems, old versions of GNU binutils may also be useful,
and are available from 'pub/binutils/old-releases' on sourceware.org
mirror sites.

   Some of the information on specific systems above relates to such
older systems, but much of the information about GCC on such systems
(which may no longer be applicable to current GCC) is to be found in the
GCC texinfo manual.

