*22.4*	The buffer list

The Vim editor uses the term buffer to describe a file being edited.
Actually, a buffer is a copy of the file that you edit.  When you finish
changing the buffer, you write the contents of the buffer to the file.
Buffers not only contain file contents, but also all the marks, settings, and
other stuff that goes with it.


HIDDEN BUFFERS

Suppose you are editing the file one.txt and need to edit the file two.txt.
You could simply use ":edit two.txt", but since you made changes to one.txt
that won't work.  You also don't want to write one.txt yet.  Vim has a
solution for you: >

	:hide edit two.txt

The buffer "one.txt" disappears from the screen, but Vim still knows that you
are editing this buffer, so it keeps the modified text.  This is called a
hidden buffer: The buffer contains text, but you can't see it.
   The argument of ":hide" is another command.  ":hide" makes that command
behave as if the 'hidden' option was set.  You could also set this option
yourself.  The effect is that when any buffer is abandoned, it becomes hidden.
   Be careful!  When you have hidden buffers with changes, don't exit Vim
without making sure you have saved all the buffers.


INACTIVE BUFFERS

   When a buffer has been used once, Vim remembers some information about it.
When it is not displayed in a window and it is not hidden, it is still in the
buffer list.  This is called an inactive buffer.  Overview:

   Active		Appears in a window, text loaded.
   Hidden		Not in a window, text loaded.
   Inactive		Not in a window, no text loaded.

The inactive buffers are remembered, because Vim keeps information about them,
like marks.  And remembering the file name is useful too, so that you can see
which files you have edited.  And edit them again.


LISTING BUFFERS

View the buffer list with this command: >

	:buffers

A command which does the same, is not so obvious to list buffers, but is much
shorter to type: >

	:ls

The output could look like this:

  1 #h   "help.txt"			line 62 ~
  2 %a + "usr_21.txt"			line 1 ~
  3      "usr_toc.txt"			line 1 ~

The first column contains the buffer number.  You can use this to edit the
buffer without having to type the name, see below.
   After the buffer number come the flags.  Then the name of the file
and the line number where the cursor was the last time.
   The flags that can appear are these (from left to right):

	u	Buffer is unlisted |unlisted-buffer|.
	 %	Current buffer.
	 #	Alternate buffer.
	  a	Buffer is loaded and displayed.
	  h	Buffer is loaded but hidden.
	   =	Buffer is read-only.
	   -	Buffer is not modifiable, the 'modifiable' option is off.
	    +	Buffer has been modified.


EDITING A BUFFER

You can edit a buffer by its number.  That avoids having to type the file
name: >

	:buffer 2

But the only way to know the number is by looking in the buffer list.  You can
use the name, or part of it, instead: >

	:buffer help

Vim will find the best match for the name you type.  If there is only one
buffer that matches the name, it will be used.  In this case "help.txt".
   To open a buffer in a new window: >

	:sbuffer 3

This works with a name as well.


USING THE BUFFER LIST

You can move around in the buffer list with these commands:

	:bnext		go to next buffer
	:bprevious	go to previous buffer
	:bfirst		go to the first buffer
	:blast		go to the last buffer

To remove a buffer from the list, use this command: >

	:bdelete 3

Again, this also works with a name.
   If you delete a buffer that was active (visible in a window), that window
will be closed.  If you delete the current buffer, the current window will be
closed.  If it was the last window, Vim will find another buffer to edit.  You
can't be editing nothing!

	Note:
	Even after removing the buffer with ":bdelete" Vim still remembers it.
	It's actually made "unlisted", it no longer appears in the list from
	":buffers".  The ":buffers!" command will list unlisted buffers (yes,
	Vim can do the impossible).  To really make Vim forget about a buffer,
	use ":bwipe".  Also see the 'buflisted' option.

