8.3  POST

   The POST method is used to request that the destination server accept
   the entity enclosed in the request as a new subordinate of the
   resource identified by the Request-URI in the Request-Line. POST is
   designed to allow a uniform method to cover the following functions:

      o Annotation of existing resources;

      o Posting a message to a bulletin board, newsgroup, mailing list,
        or similar group of articles;

      o Providing a block of data, such as the result of submitting a
        form [3], to a data-handling process;

      o Extending a database through an append operation.



Berners-Lee, et al           Informational                     [Page 31]

RFC 1945                        HTTP/1.0                        May 1996


   The actual function performed by the POST method is determined by the
   server and is usually dependent on the Request-URI. The posted entity
   is subordinate to that URI in the same way that a file is subordinate
   to a directory containing it, a news article is subordinate to a
   newsgroup to which it is posted, or a record is subordinate to a
   database.

   A successful POST does not require that the entity be created as a
   resource on the origin server or made accessible for future
   reference. That is, the action performed by the POST method might not
   result in a resource that can be identified by a URI. In this case,
   either 200 (ok) or 204 (no content) is the appropriate response
   status, depending on whether or not the response includes an entity
   that describes the result.

   If a resource has been created on the origin server, the response
   should be 201 (created) and contain an entity (preferably of type
   "text/html") which describes the status of the request and refers to
   the new resource.

   A valid Content-Length is required on all HTTP/1.0 POST requests. An
   HTTP/1.0 server should respond with a 400 (bad request) message if it
   cannot determine the length of the request message's content.

   Applications must not cache responses to a POST request because the
   application has no way of knowing that the server would return an
   equivalent response on some future request.

