15.3 Custom Test Drivers
========================

* Menu:

* Overview of Custom Test Drivers Support::
* Declaring Custom Test Drivers::
* API for Custom Test Drivers::

File: automake.info,  Node: Overview of Custom Test Drivers Support,  Next: Declaring Custom Test Drivers,  Up: Custom Test Drivers

15.3.1 Overview of Custom Test Drivers Support
----------------------------------------------

Starting from Automake version 1.12, the parallel test harness allows
the package authors to use third-party custom test drivers, in case the
default ones are inadequate for their purposes, or do not support their
testing protocol of choice.

   A custom test driver is expected to properly run the test programs
passed to it (including the command-line arguments passed to those
programs, if any), to analyze their execution and outcome, to create the
‘.log’ and ‘.trs’ files associated to these test runs, and to display
the test results on the console.  It is responsibility of the author of
the test driver to ensure that it implements all the above steps
meaningfully and correctly; Automake isn’t and can’t be of any help
here.  On the other hand, the Automake-provided code for testsuite
summary generation offers support for test drivers allowing several test
results per test script, if they take care to register such results
properly (*note Log files generation and test results recording::).

   The exact details of how test scripts’ results are to be determined
and analyzed is left to the individual drivers.  Some drivers might only
consider the test script exit status (this is done for example by the
default test driver used by the parallel test harness, described in the
previous section).  Other drivers might implement more complex and
advanced test protocols, which might require them to parse and
interpreter the output emitted by the test script they’re running
(examples of such protocols are TAP and SubUnit).

   It’s very important to note that, even when using custom test
drivers, most of the infrastructure described in the previous section
about the parallel harness remains in place; this includes:

   • list of test scripts defined in ‘TESTS’, and overridable at runtime
     through the redefinition of ‘TESTS’ or ‘TEST_LOGS’;
   • concurrency through the use of ‘make’’s option ‘-j’;
   • per-test ‘.log’ and ‘.trs’ files, and generation of a summary
     ‘.log’ file from them;
   • ‘recheck’ target, ‘RECHECK_LOGS’ variable, and lazy reruns of
     tests;
   • inter-test dependencies;
   • support for ‘check_*’ variables (‘check_PROGRAMS’,
     ‘check_LIBRARIES’, ...);
   • use of ‘VERBOSE’ environment variable to get verbose output on
     testsuite failures;
   • definition and honoring of ‘TESTS_ENVIRONMENT’,
     ‘AM_TESTS_ENVIRONMENT’ and ‘AM_TESTS_FD_REDIRECT’ variables;
   • definition of generic and extension-specific ‘LOG_COMPILER’ and
     ‘LOG_FLAGS’ variables.

On the other hand, the exact semantics of how (and if) testsuite output
colorization, ‘XFAIL_TESTS’, and hard errors are supported and handled
is left to the individual test drivers.

File: automake.info,  Node: Declaring Custom Test Drivers,  Next: API for Custom Test Drivers,  Prev: Overview of Custom Test Drivers Support,  Up: Custom Test Drivers

15.3.2 Declaring Custom Test Drivers
------------------------------------

Custom testsuite drivers are declared by defining the make variables
‘LOG_DRIVER’ or ‘EXT_LOG_DRIVER’ (where EXT must be declared in
‘TEST_EXTENSIONS’).  They must be defined to programs or scripts that
will be used to drive the execution, logging, and outcome report of the
tests with corresponding extensions (or of those with no registered
extension in the case of ‘LOG_DRIVER’).  Clearly, multiple distinct test
drivers can be declared in the same ‘Makefile.am’.  Note moreover that
the ‘LOG_DRIVER’ variables are _not_ a substitute for the ‘LOG_COMPILER’
variables: the two sets of variables can, and often do, usefully and
legitimately coexist.

   The developer-reserved variable ‘AM_LOG_DRIVER_FLAGS’ and the
user-reserved variable ‘LOG_DRIVER_FLAGS’ can be used to define flags
that will be passed to each invocation of ‘LOG_DRIVER’, with the
user-defined flags obviously taking precedence over the
developer-reserved ones.  Similarly, for each extension EXT declared in
‘TEST_EXTENSIONS’, flags listed in ‘AM_EXT_LOG_DRIVER_FLAGS’ and
‘EXT_LOG_DRIVER_FLAGS’ will be passed to invocations of
‘EXT_LOG_DRIVER’.

File: automake.info,  Node: API for Custom Test Drivers,  Prev: Declaring Custom Test Drivers,  Up: Custom Test Drivers

15.3.3 API for Custom Test Drivers
----------------------------------

Note that _the APIs described here are still highly experimental_, and
will very likely undergo tightenings and likely also extensive changes
in the future, to accommodate for new features or to satisfy additional
portability requirements.

   The main characteristic of these APIs is that they are designed to
share as much infrastructure, semantics, and implementation details as
possible with the parallel test harness and its default driver.

* Menu:

* Command-line arguments for test drivers::
* Log files generation and test results recording::
* Testsuite progress output::

File: automake.info,  Node: Command-line arguments for test drivers,  Next: Log files generation and test results recording,  Up: API for Custom Test Drivers

15.3.3.1 Command-line arguments for test drivers
................................................

A custom driver can rely on various command-line options and arguments
being passed to it automatically by the Automake-generated test harness.
It is _mandatory_ that it understands all of them (even if the exact
interpretation of the associated semantics can legitimately change
between a test driver and another, and even be a no-op in some drivers).

Here is the list of options:

‘--test-name=NAME’
     The name of the test, with VPATH prefix (if any) removed.  This can
     have a suffix and a directory component (as in e.g.,
     ‘sub/foo.test’), and is mostly meant to be used in console reports
     about testsuite advancements and results (*note Testsuite progress
     output::).
‘--log-file=PATH.log’
     The ‘.log’ file the test driver must create (*note Basics of test
     metadata::).  If it has a directory component (as in e.g.,
     ‘sub/foo.log’), the test harness will ensure that such directory
     exists _before_ the test driver is called.
‘--trs-file=PATH.trs’
     The ‘.trs’ file the test driver must create (*note Basics of test
     metadata::).  If it has a directory component (as in e.g.,
     ‘sub/foo.trs’), the test harness will ensure that such directory
     exists _before_ the test driver is called.
‘--color-tests={yes|no}’
     Whether the console output should be colorized or not (*note Simple
     tests and color-tests::, to learn when this option gets activated
     and when it doesn’t).
‘--expect-failure={yes|no}’
     Whether the tested program is expected to fail.
‘--enable-hard-errors={yes|no}’
     Whether “hard errors” in the tested program should be treated
     differently from normal failures or not (the default should be
     ‘yes’).  The exact meaning of “hard error” is highly dependent from
     the test protocols or conventions in use.
‘--’
     Explicitly terminate the list of options.

The first non-option argument passed to the test driver is the program
to be run, and all the following ones are command-line options and
arguments for this program.

   Note that the exact semantics attached to the ‘--color-tests’,
‘--expect-failure’ and ‘--enable-hard-errors’ options are left up to the
individual test drivers.  Still, having a behaviour compatible or at
least similar to that provided by the default driver is advised, as that
would offer a better consistency and a more pleasant user experience.

File: automake.info,  Node: Log files generation and test results recording,  Next: Testsuite progress output,  Prev: Command-line arguments for test drivers,  Up: API for Custom Test Drivers

15.3.3.2 Log files generation and test results recording
........................................................

The test driver must correctly generate the files specified by the
‘--log-file’ and ‘--trs-file’ option (even when the tested program fails
or crashes).

   The ‘.log’ file should ideally contain all the output produced by the
tested program, plus optionally other information that might facilitate
debugging or analysis of bug reports.  Apart from that, its format is
basically free.

   The ‘.trs’ file is used to register some metadata through the use of
custom reStructuredText fields.  This metadata is expected to be
employed in various ways by the parallel test harness; for example, to
count the test results when printing the testsuite summary, or to decide
which tests to re-run upon ‘make recheck’.  Unrecognized metadata in a
‘.trs’ file is currently ignored by the harness, but this might change
in the future.  The list of currently recognized metadata follows.

‘:test-result:’
     The test driver must use this field to register the results of
     _each_ test case run by a test script file.  Several
     ‘:test-result:’ fields can be present in the same ‘.trs’ file; this
     is done in order to support test protocols that allow a single test
     script to run more test cases.

     The only recognized test results are currently ‘PASS’, ‘XFAIL’,
     ‘SKIP’, ‘FAIL’, ‘XPASS’ and ‘ERROR’.  These results, when declared
     with ‘:test-result:’, can be optionally followed by text holding
     the name and/or a brief description of the corresponding test; the
     harness will ignore such extra text when generating
     ‘test-suite.log’ and preparing the testsuite summary.

‘:recheck:’
     If this field is present and defined to ‘no’, then the
     corresponding test script will _not_ be run upon a ‘make recheck’.
     What happens when two or more ‘:recheck:’ fields are present in the
     same ‘.trs’ file is undefined behaviour.

‘:copy-in-global-log:’
     If this field is present and defined to ‘no’, then the content of
     the ‘.log’ file will _not_ be copied into the global
     ‘test-suite.log’.  We allow to forsake such copying because, while
     it can be useful in debugging and analysis of bug report, it can
     also be just a waste of space in normal situations, e.g., when a
     test script is successful.  What happens when two or more
     ‘:copy-in-global-log:’ fields are present in the same ‘.trs’ file
     is undefined behaviour.

‘:test-global-result:’
     This is used to declare the "global result" of the script.
     Currently, the value of this field is needed only to be reported
     (more or less verbatim) in the generated global log file
     ‘$(TEST_SUITE_LOG)’, so it’s quite free-form.  For example, a test
     script which run 10 test cases, 6 of which pass and 4 of which are
     skipped, could reasonably have a ‘PASS/SKIP’ value for this field,
     while a test script which run 19 successful tests and one failed
     test could have an ‘ALMOST PASSED’ value.  What happens when two or
     more ‘:test-global-result:’ fields are present in the same ‘.trs’
     file is undefined behaviour.

Let’s see a small example.  Assume a ‘.trs’ file contains the following
lines:

     :test-result: PASS server starts
     :global-log-copy: no
     :test-result: PASS HTTP/1.1 request
     :test-result: FAIL HTTP/1.0 request
     :recheck: yes
     :test-result: SKIP HTTPS request (TLS library wasn't available)
     :test-result: PASS server stops

Then the corresponding test script will be re-run by ‘make check’, will
contribute with _five_ test results to the testsuite summary (three of
these tests being successful, one failed, and one skipped), and the
content of the corresponding ‘.log’ file will _not_ be copied in the
global log file ‘test-suite.log’.

File: automake.info,  Node: Testsuite progress output,  Prev: Log files generation and test results recording,  Up: API for Custom Test Drivers

15.3.3.3 Testsuite progress output
..................................

A custom test driver also has the task of displaying, on the standard
output, the test results as soon as they become available.  Depending on
the protocol in use, it can also display the reasons for failures and
skips, and, more generally, any useful diagnostic output (but remember
that each line on the screen is precious, so that cluttering the screen
with overly verbose information is bad idea).  The exact format of this
progress output is left up to the test driver; in fact, a custom test
driver might _theoretically_ even decide not to do any such report,
leaving it all to the testsuite summary (that would be a very lousy
idea, of course, and serves only to illustrate the flexibility that is
granted here).

   Remember that consistency is good; so, if possible, try to be
consistent with the output of the built-in Automake test drivers,
providing a similar “look & feel”.  In particular, the testsuite
progress output should be colorized when the ‘--color-tests’ is passed
to the driver.  On the other end, if you are using a known and
widespread test protocol with well-established implementations, being
consistent with those implementations’ output might be a good idea too.

File: automake.info,  Node: Using the TAP test protocol,  Next: DejaGnu Tests,  Prev: Custom Test Drivers,  Up: Tests

