17.2 List of Automake options
=============================

‘gnits’
‘gnu’
‘foreign’

     Set the strictness as appropriate.  The ‘gnits’ option also implies
     options ‘readme-alpha’ and ‘check-news’.

‘check-news’
     Cause ‘make dist’ to fail unless the current version number appears
     in the first few lines of the ‘NEWS’ file.

‘dejagnu’
     Cause ‘dejagnu’-specific rules to be generated.  *Note DejaGnu
     Tests::.

‘dist-bzip2’
     Hook ‘dist-bzip2’ to ‘dist’.

‘dist-lzip’
     Hook ‘dist-lzip’ to ‘dist’.

‘dist-xz’
     Hook ‘dist-xz’ to ‘dist’.

‘dist-zip’
     Hook ‘dist-zip’ to ‘dist’.

‘dist-shar’
     Hook ‘dist-shar’ to ‘dist’.  Use of this option is deprecated, as
     the ‘shar’ format is obsolescent and problematic.  Support for it
     will be removed altogether in Automake 2.0.

‘dist-tarZ’
     Hook ‘dist-tarZ’ to ‘dist’.  Use of this option is deprecated, as
     the ‘compress’ program is obsolete.  Support for it will be removed
     altogether in Automake 2.0.

‘filename-length-max=99’
     Abort if file names longer than 99 characters are found during
     ‘make dist’.  Such long file names are generally considered not to
     be portable in tarballs.  See the ‘tar-v7’ and ‘tar-ustar’ options
     below.  This option should be used in the top-level ‘Makefile.am’
     or as an argument of ‘AM_INIT_AUTOMAKE’ in ‘configure.ac’, it will
     be ignored otherwise.  It will also be ignored in sub-packages of
     nested packages (*note Subpackages::).

‘info-in-builddir’
     Instruct Automake to place the generated ‘.info’ files in the
     ‘builddir’ rather than in the ‘srcdir’.  Note that this might make
     VPATH builds with some non-GNU make implementations more brittle.

‘no-define’
     This option is meaningful only when passed as an argument to
     ‘AM_INIT_AUTOMAKE’.  It will prevent the ‘PACKAGE’ and ‘VERSION’
     variables from being ‘AC_DEFINE’d.  But notice that they will
     remain defined as shell variables in the generated ‘configure’, and
     as make variables in the generated ‘Makefile’; this is deliberate,
     and required for backward compatibility.

‘no-dependencies’
     This is similar to using ‘--ignore-deps’ on the command line, but
     is useful for those situations where you don’t have the necessary
     bits to make automatic dependency tracking work (*note
     Dependencies::).  In this case the effect is to effectively disable
     automatic dependency tracking.

‘no-dist’
     Don’t emit any code related to ‘dist’ target.  This is useful when
     a package has its own method for making distributions.

‘no-dist-gzip’
     Do not hook ‘dist-gzip’ to ‘dist’.

‘no-exeext’
     If your ‘Makefile.am’ defines a rule for target ‘foo’, it will
     override a rule for a target named ‘foo$(EXEEXT)’.  This is
     necessary when ‘EXEEXT’ is found to be empty.  However, by default
     ‘automake’ will generate an error for this use.  The ‘no-exeext’
     option will disable this error.  This is intended for use only
     where it is known in advance that the package will not be ported to
     Windows, or any other operating system using extensions on
     executables.

‘no-installinfo’
     The generated ‘Makefile.in’ will not cause info pages to be built
     or installed by default.  However, ‘info’ and ‘install-info’
     targets will still be available.  This option is disallowed at
     ‘gnu’ strictness and above.

‘no-installman’
     The generated ‘Makefile.in’ will not cause man pages to be
     installed by default.  However, an ‘install-man’ target will still
     be available for optional installation.  This option is disallowed
     at ‘gnu’ strictness and above.

‘nostdinc’
     This option can be used to disable the standard ‘-I’ options that
     are ordinarily automatically provided by Automake.

‘no-texinfo.tex’
     Don’t require ‘texinfo.tex’, even if there are texinfo files in
     this directory.

‘serial-tests’
     Enable the older serial test suite harness for ‘TESTS’ (*note
     Serial Test Harness::, for more information).

‘parallel-tests’
     Enable test suite harness for ‘TESTS’ that can run tests in
     parallel (*note Parallel Test Harness::, for more information).
     This option is only kept for backward-compatibility, since the
     parallel test harness is the default now.

‘readme-alpha’
     If this release is an alpha release, and the file ‘README-alpha’
     exists, then it will be added to the distribution.  If this option
     is given, version numbers are expected to follow one of two forms.
     The first form is ‘MAJOR.MINOR.ALPHA’, where each element is a
     number; the final period and number should be left off for
     non-alpha releases.  The second form is ‘MAJOR.MINORALPHA’, where
     ALPHA is a letter; it should be omitted for non-alpha releases.

‘std-options’

     Make the ‘installcheck’ rule check that installed scripts and
     programs support the ‘--help’ and ‘--version’ options.  This also
     provides a basic check that the program’s run-time dependencies are
     satisfied after installation.

     In a few situations, programs (or scripts) have to be exempted from
     this test.  For instance, ‘false’ (from GNU coreutils) is never
     successful, even for ‘--help’ or ‘--version’.  You can list such
     programs in the variable ‘AM_INSTALLCHECK_STD_OPTIONS_EXEMPT’.
     Programs (not scripts) listed in this variable should be suffixed
     by ‘$(EXEEXT)’ for the sake of Windows or OS/2.  For instance,
     suppose we build ‘false’ as a program but ‘true.sh’ as a script,
     and that neither of them support ‘--help’ or ‘--version’:

          AUTOMAKE_OPTIONS = std-options
          bin_PROGRAMS = false ...
          bin_SCRIPTS = true.sh ...
          AM_INSTALLCHECK_STD_OPTIONS_EXEMPT = false$(EXEEXT) true.sh

‘subdir-objects’
     If this option is specified, then objects are placed into the
     subdirectory of the build directory corresponding to the
     subdirectory of the source file.  For instance, if the source file
     is ‘subdir/file.cxx’, then the output file would be
     ‘subdir/file.o’.

‘tar-v7’
‘tar-ustar’
‘tar-pax’

     These three mutually exclusive options select the tar format to use
     when generating tarballs with ‘make dist’.  (The tar file created
     is then compressed according to the set of ‘no-dist-gzip’,
     ‘dist-bzip2’, ‘dist-lzip’, ‘dist-xz’ and ‘dist-tarZ’ options in
     use.)

     These options must be passed as arguments to ‘AM_INIT_AUTOMAKE’
     (*note Macros::) because they can require additional configure
     checks.  Automake will complain if it sees such options in an
     ‘AUTOMAKE_OPTIONS’ variable.

     ‘tar-v7’ selects the old V7 tar format.  This is the historical
     default.  This antiquated format is understood by all tar
     implementations and supports file names with up to 99 characters.
     When given longer file names some tar implementations will diagnose
     the problem while other will generate broken tarballs or use
     non-portable extensions.  Furthermore, the V7 format cannot store
     empty directories.  When using this format, consider using the
     ‘filename-length-max=99’ option to catch file names too long.

     ‘tar-ustar’ selects the ustar format defined by POSIX 1003.1-1988.
     This format is old enough to be portable: As of 2018, it is
     supported by the native ‘tar’ command on GNU, FreeBSD, NetBSD,
     OpenBSD, AIX, HP-UX, Solaris, at least.  It fully supports empty
     directories.  It can store file names with up to 256 characters,
     provided that the file name can be split at directory separator in
     two parts, first of them being at most 155 bytes long.  So, in most
     cases the maximum file name length will be shorter than 256
     characters.

     ‘tar-pax’ selects the new pax interchange format defined by POSIX
     1003.1-2001.  It does not limit the length of file names.  However,
     this format is very young and should probably be restricted to
     packages that target only very modern platforms.  As of 2018, this
     format is supported by the native ‘tar’ command only on GNU,
     FreeBSD, OpenBSD system; it is not supported by the native ‘tar’
     command on NetBSD, AIX, HP-UX, Solaris.  There are moves to change
     the pax format in an upward-compatible way, so this option may
     refer to a more recent version in the future.

     *Note Controlling the Archive Format: (tar)Formats, for further
     discussion about tar formats.

     ‘configure’ knows several ways to construct these formats.  It will
     not abort if it cannot find a tool up to the task (so that the
     package can still be built), but ‘make dist’ will fail.

VERSION
     A version number (e.g., ‘0.30’) can be specified.  If Automake is
     not newer than the version specified, creation of the ‘Makefile.in’
     will be suppressed.

‘-WCATEGORY’ or ‘--warnings=CATEGORY’
     These options behave exactly like their command-line counterpart
     (*note automake Invocation::).  This allows you to enable or
     disable some warning categories on a per-file basis.  You can also
     setup some warnings for your entire project; for instance, try
     ‘AM_INIT_AUTOMAKE([-Wall])’ in your ‘configure.ac’.

   Unrecognized options are diagnosed by ‘automake’.

   If you want an option to apply to all the files in the tree, you can
use the ‘AM_INIT_AUTOMAKE’ macro in ‘configure.ac’.  *Note Macros::.

File: automake.info,  Node: Miscellaneous,  Next: Include,  Prev: Options,  Up: Top

