1.2 Standards and Portability
=============================

This section discusses the various standards and other sources that the
GNU C Library is based upon.  These sources include the ISO C and POSIX
standards, and the System V and Berkeley Unix implementations.

   The primary focus of this manual is to tell you how to make effective
use of the GNU C Library facilities.  But if you are concerned about
making your programs compatible with these standards, or portable to
operating systems other than GNU, this can affect how you use the
library.  This section gives you an overview of these standards, so that
you will know what they are when they are mentioned in other parts of
the manual.

   *Note Library Summary::, for an alphabetical list of the functions
and other symbols provided by the library.  This list also states which
standards each function or symbol comes from.

* Menu:

* ISO C::                       The international standard for the C
                                 programming language.
* POSIX::                       The ISO/IEC 9945 (aka IEEE 1003) standards
                                 for operating systems.
* Berkeley Unix::               BSD and SunOS.
* SVID::                        The System V Interface Description.
* XPG::                         The X/Open Portability Guide.

File: libc.info,  Node: ISO C,  Next: POSIX,  Up: Standards and Portability

1.2.1 ISO C
-----------

The GNU C Library is compatible with the C standard adopted by the
American National Standards Institute (ANSI): ‘American National
Standard X3.159-1989—“ANSI C”’ and later by the International
Standardization Organization (ISO): ‘ISO/IEC 9899:1990, “Programming
languages—C”’.  We here refer to the standard as ISO C since this is the
more general standard in respect of ratification.  The header files and
library facilities that make up the GNU C Library are a superset of
those specified by the ISO C standard.

   If you are concerned about strict adherence to the ISO C standard,
you should use the ‘-ansi’ option when you compile your programs with
the GNU C compiler.  This tells the compiler to define _only_ ISO
standard features from the library header files, unless you explicitly
ask for additional features.  *Note Feature Test Macros::, for
information on how to do this.

   Being able to restrict the library to include only ISO C features is
important because ISO C puts limitations on what names can be defined by
the library implementation, and the GNU extensions don’t fit these
limitations.  *Note Reserved Names::, for more information about these
restrictions.

   This manual does not attempt to give you complete details on the
differences between ISO C and older dialects.  It gives advice on how to
write programs to work portably under multiple C dialects, but does not
aim for completeness.

File: libc.info,  Node: POSIX,  Next: Berkeley Unix,  Prev: ISO C,  Up: Standards and Portability

1.2.2 POSIX (The Portable Operating System Interface)
-----------------------------------------------------

The GNU C Library is also compatible with the ISO “POSIX” family of
standards, known more formally as the “Portable Operating System
Interface for Computer Environments” (ISO/IEC 9945).  They were also
published as ANSI/IEEE Std 1003.  POSIX is derived mostly from various
versions of the Unix operating system.

   The library facilities specified by the POSIX standards are a
superset of those required by ISO C; POSIX specifies additional features
for ISO C functions, as well as specifying new additional functions.  In
general, the additional requirements and functionality defined by the
POSIX standards are aimed at providing lower-level support for a
particular kind of operating system environment, rather than general
programming language support which can run in many diverse operating
system environments.

   The GNU C Library implements all of the functions specified in
‘ISO/IEC 9945-1:1996, the POSIX System Application Program Interface’,
commonly referred to as POSIX.1.  The primary extensions to the ISO C
facilities specified by this standard include file system interface
primitives (*note File System Interface::), device-specific terminal
control functions (*note Low-Level Terminal Interface::), and process
control functions (*note Processes::).

   Some facilities from ‘ISO/IEC 9945-2:1993, the POSIX Shell and
Utilities standard’ (POSIX.2) are also implemented in the GNU C Library.
These include utilities for dealing with regular expressions and other
pattern matching facilities (*note Pattern Matching::).

* Menu:

* POSIX Safety Concepts::       Safety concepts from POSIX.
* Unsafe Features::             Features that make functions unsafe.
* Conditionally Safe Features:: Features that make functions unsafe
                                 in the absence of workarounds.
* Other Safety Remarks::        Additional safety features and remarks.

File: libc.info,  Node: POSIX Safety Concepts,  Next: Unsafe Features,  Up: POSIX

1.2.2.1 POSIX Safety Concepts
.............................

This manual documents various safety properties of GNU C Library
functions, in lines that follow their prototypes and look like:

Preliminary: | MT-Safe | AS-Safe | AC-Safe |

   The properties are assessed according to the criteria set forth in
the POSIX standard for such safety contexts as Thread-, Async-Signal-
and Async-Cancel- -Safety.  Intuitive definitions of these properties,
attempting to capture the meaning of the standard definitions, follow.

   • ‘MT-Safe’ or Thread-Safe functions are safe to call in the presence
     of other threads.  MT, in MT-Safe, stands for Multi Thread.

     Being MT-Safe does not imply a function is atomic, nor that it uses
     any of the memory synchronization mechanisms POSIX exposes to
     users.  It is even possible that calling MT-Safe functions in
     sequence does not yield an MT-Safe combination.  For example,
     having a thread call two MT-Safe functions one right after the
     other does not guarantee behavior equivalent to atomic execution of
     a combination of both functions, since concurrent calls in other
     threads may interfere in a destructive way.

     Whole-program optimizations that could inline functions across
     library interfaces may expose unsafe reordering, and so performing
     inlining across the GNU C Library interface is not recommended.
     The documented MT-Safety status is not guaranteed under
     whole-program optimization.  However, functions defined in
     user-visible headers are designed to be safe for inlining.

   • ‘AS-Safe’ or Async-Signal-Safe functions are safe to call from
     asynchronous signal handlers.  AS, in AS-Safe, stands for
     Asynchronous Signal.

     Many functions that are AS-Safe may set ‘errno’, or modify the
     floating-point environment, because their doing so does not make
     them unsuitable for use in signal handlers.  However, programs
     could misbehave should asynchronous signal handlers modify this
     thread-local state, and the signal handling machinery cannot be
     counted on to preserve it.  Therefore, signal handlers that call
     functions that may set ‘errno’ or modify the floating-point
     environment _must_ save their original values, and restore them
     before returning.

   • ‘AC-Safe’ or Async-Cancel-Safe functions are safe to call when
     asynchronous cancellation is enabled.  AC in AC-Safe stands for
     Asynchronous Cancellation.

     The POSIX standard defines only three functions to be AC-Safe,
     namely ‘pthread_cancel’, ‘pthread_setcancelstate’, and
     ‘pthread_setcanceltype’.  At present the GNU C Library provides no
     guarantees beyond these three functions, but does document which
     functions are presently AC-Safe.  This documentation is provided
     for use by the GNU C Library developers.

     Just like signal handlers, cancellation cleanup routines must
     configure the floating point environment they require.  The
     routines cannot assume a floating point environment, particularly
     when asynchronous cancellation is enabled.  If the configuration of
     the floating point environment cannot be performed atomically then
     it is also possible that the environment encountered is internally
     inconsistent.

   • ‘MT-Unsafe’, ‘AS-Unsafe’, ‘AC-Unsafe’ functions are not safe to
     call within the safety contexts described above.  Calling them
     within such contexts invokes undefined behavior.

     Functions not explicitly documented as safe in a safety context
     should be regarded as Unsafe.

   • ‘Preliminary’ safety properties are documented, indicating these
     properties may _not_ be counted on in future releases of the GNU C
     Library.

     Such preliminary properties are the result of an assessment of the
     properties of our current implementation, rather than of what is
     mandated and permitted by current and future standards.

     Although we strive to abide by the standards, in some cases our
     implementation is safe even when the standard does not demand
     safety, and in other cases our implementation does not meet the
     standard safety requirements.  The latter are most likely bugs; the
     former, when marked as ‘Preliminary’, should not be counted on:
     future standards may require changes that are not compatible with
     the additional safety properties afforded by the current
     implementation.

     Furthermore, the POSIX standard does not offer a detailed
     definition of safety.  We assume that, by “safe to call”, POSIX
     means that, as long as the program does not invoke undefined
     behavior, the “safe to call” function behaves as specified, and
     does not cause other functions to deviate from their specified
     behavior.  We have chosen to use its loose definitions of safety,
     not because they are the best definitions to use, but because
     choosing them harmonizes this manual with POSIX.

     Please keep in mind that these are preliminary definitions and
     annotations, and certain aspects of the definitions are still under
     discussion and might be subject to clarification or change.

     Over time, we envision evolving the preliminary safety notes into
     stable commitments, as stable as those of our interfaces.  As we
     do, we will remove the ‘Preliminary’ keyword from safety notes.  As
     long as the keyword remains, however, they are not to be regarded
     as a promise of future behavior.

   Other keywords that appear in safety notes are defined in subsequent
sections.

File: libc.info,  Node: Unsafe Features,  Next: Conditionally Safe Features,  Prev: POSIX Safety Concepts,  Up: POSIX

1.2.2.2 Unsafe Features
.......................

Functions that are unsafe to call in certain contexts are annotated with
keywords that document their features that make them unsafe to call.
AS-Unsafe features in this section indicate the functions are never safe
to call when asynchronous signals are enabled.  AC-Unsafe features
indicate they are never safe to call when asynchronous cancellation is
enabled.  There are no MT-Unsafe marks in this section.

   • ‘lock’

     Functions marked with ‘lock’ as an AS-Unsafe feature may be
     interrupted by a signal while holding a non-recursive lock.  If the
     signal handler calls another such function that takes the same
     lock, the result is a deadlock.

     Functions annotated with ‘lock’ as an AC-Unsafe feature may, if
     cancelled asynchronously, fail to release a lock that would have
     been released if their execution had not been interrupted by
     asynchronous thread cancellation.  Once a lock is left taken,
     attempts to take that lock will block indefinitely.

   • ‘corrupt’

     Functions marked with ‘corrupt’ as an AS-Unsafe feature may corrupt
     data structures and misbehave when they interrupt, or are
     interrupted by, another such function.  Unlike functions marked
     with ‘lock’, these take recursive locks to avoid MT-Safety
     problems, but this is not enough to stop a signal handler from
     observing a partially-updated data structure.  Further corruption
     may arise from the interrupted function’s failure to notice updates
     made by signal handlers.

     Functions marked with ‘corrupt’ as an AC-Unsafe feature may leave
     data structures in a corrupt, partially updated state.  Subsequent
     uses of the data structure may misbehave.

   • ‘heap’

     Functions marked with ‘heap’ may call heap memory management
     functions from the ‘malloc’/‘free’ family of functions and are only
     as safe as those functions.  This note is thus equivalent to:

     | AS-Unsafe lock | AC-Unsafe lock fd mem |

   • ‘dlopen’

     Functions marked with ‘dlopen’ use the dynamic loader to load
     shared libraries into the current execution image.  This involves
     opening files, mapping them into memory, allocating additional
     memory, resolving symbols, applying relocations and more, all of
     this while holding internal dynamic loader locks.

     The locks are enough for these functions to be AS- and AC-Unsafe,
     but other issues may arise.  At present this is a placeholder for
     all potential safety issues raised by ‘dlopen’.

   • ‘plugin’

     Functions annotated with ‘plugin’ may run code from plugins that
     may be external to the GNU C Library.  Such plugin functions are
     assumed to be MT-Safe, AS-Unsafe and AC-Unsafe.  Examples of such
     plugins are stack unwinding libraries, name service switch (NSS)
     and character set conversion (iconv) back-ends.

     Although the plugins mentioned as examples are all brought in by
     means of dlopen, the ‘plugin’ keyword does not imply any direct
     involvement of the dynamic loader or the ‘libdl’ interfaces, those
     are covered by ‘dlopen’.  For example, if one function loads a
     module and finds the addresses of some of its functions, while
     another just calls those already-resolved functions, the former
     will be marked with ‘dlopen’, whereas the latter will get the
     ‘plugin’.  When a single function takes all of these actions, then
     it gets both marks.

   • ‘i18n’

     Functions marked with ‘i18n’ may call internationalization
     functions of the ‘gettext’ family and will be only as safe as those
     functions.  This note is thus equivalent to:

     | MT-Safe env | AS-Unsafe corrupt heap dlopen | AC-Unsafe corrupt |

   • ‘timer’

     Functions marked with ‘timer’ use the ‘alarm’ function or similar
     to set a time-out for a system call or a long-running operation.
     In a multi-threaded program, there is a risk that the time-out
     signal will be delivered to a different thread, thus failing to
     interrupt the intended thread.  Besides being MT-Unsafe, such
     functions are always AS-Unsafe, because calling them in signal
     handlers may interfere with timers set in the interrupted code, and
     AC-Unsafe, because there is no safe way to guarantee an earlier
     timer will be reset in case of asynchronous cancellation.

File: libc.info,  Node: Conditionally Safe Features,  Next: Other Safety Remarks,  Prev: Unsafe Features,  Up: POSIX

1.2.2.3 Conditionally Safe Features
...................................

For some features that make functions unsafe to call in certain
contexts, there are known ways to avoid the safety problem other than
refraining from calling the function altogether.  The keywords that
follow refer to such features, and each of their definitions indicate
how the whole program needs to be constrained in order to remove the
safety problem indicated by the keyword.  Only when all the reasons that
make a function unsafe are observed and addressed, by applying the
documented constraints, does the function become safe to call in a
context.

   • ‘init’

     Functions marked with ‘init’ as an MT-Unsafe feature perform
     MT-Unsafe initialization when they are first called.

     Calling such a function at least once in single-threaded mode
     removes this specific cause for the function to be regarded as
     MT-Unsafe.  If no other cause for that remains, the function can
     then be safely called after other threads are started.

     Functions marked with ‘init’ as an AS- or AC-Unsafe feature use the
     internal ‘libc_once’ machinery or similar to initialize internal
     data structures.

     If a signal handler interrupts such an initializer, and calls any
     function that also performs ‘libc_once’ initialization, it will
     deadlock if the thread library has been loaded.

     Furthermore, if an initializer is partially complete before it is
     canceled or interrupted by a signal whose handler requires the same
     initialization, some or all of the initialization may be performed
     more than once, leaking resources or even resulting in corrupt
     internal data.

     Applications that need to call functions marked with ‘init’ as an
     AS- or AC-Unsafe feature should ensure the initialization is
     performed before configuring signal handlers or enabling
     cancellation, so that the AS- and AC-Safety issues related with
     ‘libc_once’ do not arise.

   • ‘race’

     Functions annotated with ‘race’ as an MT-Safety issue operate on
     objects in ways that may cause data races or similar forms of
     destructive interference out of concurrent execution.  In some
     cases, the objects are passed to the functions by users; in others,
     they are used by the functions to return values to users; in
     others, they are not even exposed to users.

     We consider access to objects passed as (indirect) arguments to
     functions to be data race free.  The assurance of data race free
     objects is the caller’s responsibility.  We will not mark a
     function as MT-Unsafe or AS-Unsafe if it misbehaves when users fail
     to take the measures required by POSIX to avoid data races when
     dealing with such objects.  As a general rule, if a function is
     documented as reading from an object passed (by reference) to it,
     or modifying it, users ought to use memory synchronization
     primitives to avoid data races just as they would should they
     perform the accesses themselves rather than by calling the library
     function.  ‘FILE’ streams are the exception to the general rule, in
     that POSIX mandates the library to guard against data races in many
     functions that manipulate objects of this specific opaque type.  We
     regard this as a convenience provided to users, rather than as a
     general requirement whose expectations should extend to other
     types.

     In order to remind users that guarding certain arguments is their
     responsibility, we will annotate functions that take objects of
     certain types as arguments.  We draw the line for objects passed by
     users as follows: objects whose types are exposed to users, and
     that users are expected to access directly, such as memory buffers,
     strings, and various user-visible ‘struct’ types, do _not_ give
     reason for functions to be annotated with ‘race’.  It would be
     noisy and redundant with the general requirement, and not many
     would be surprised by the library’s lack of internal guards when
     accessing objects that can be accessed directly by users.

     As for objects that are opaque or opaque-like, in that they are to
     be manipulated only by passing them to library functions (e.g.,
     ‘FILE’, ‘DIR’, ‘obstack’, ‘iconv_t’), there might be additional
     expectations as to internal coordination of access by the library.
     We will annotate, with ‘race’ followed by a colon and the argument
     name, functions that take such objects but that do not take care of
     synchronizing access to them by default.  For example, ‘FILE’
     stream ‘unlocked’ functions will be annotated, but those that
     perform implicit locking on ‘FILE’ streams by default will not,
     even though the implicit locking may be disabled on a per-stream
     basis.

     In either case, we will not regard as MT-Unsafe functions that may
     access user-supplied objects in unsafe ways should users fail to
     ensure the accesses are well defined.  The notion prevails that
     users are expected to safeguard against data races any
     user-supplied objects that the library accesses on their behalf.

     This user responsibility does not apply, however, to objects
     controlled by the library itself, such as internal objects and
     static buffers used to return values from certain calls.  When the
     library doesn’t guard them against concurrent uses, these cases are
     regarded as MT-Unsafe and AS-Unsafe (although the ‘race’ mark under
     AS-Unsafe will be omitted as redundant with the one under
     MT-Unsafe).  As in the case of user-exposed objects, the mark may
     be followed by a colon and an identifier.  The identifier groups
     all functions that operate on a certain unguarded object; users may
     avoid the MT-Safety issues related with unguarded concurrent access
     to such internal objects by creating a non-recursive mutex related
     with the identifier, and always holding the mutex when calling any
     function marked as racy on that identifier, as they would have to
     should the identifier be an object under user control.  The
     non-recursive mutex avoids the MT-Safety issue, but it trades one
     AS-Safety issue for another, so use in asynchronous signals remains
     undefined.

     When the identifier relates to a static buffer used to hold return
     values, the mutex must be held for as long as the buffer remains in
     use by the caller.  Many functions that return pointers to static
     buffers offer reentrant variants that store return values in
     caller-supplied buffers instead.  In some cases, such as ‘tmpname’,
     the variant is chosen not by calling an alternate entry point, but
     by passing a non-‘NULL’ pointer to the buffer in which the returned
     values are to be stored.  These variants are generally preferable
     in multi-threaded programs, although some of them are not MT-Safe
     because of other internal buffers, also documented with ‘race’
     notes.

   • ‘const’

     Functions marked with ‘const’ as an MT-Safety issue non-atomically
     modify internal objects that are better regarded as constant,
     because a substantial portion of the GNU C Library accesses them
     without synchronization.  Unlike ‘race’, that causes both readers
     and writers of internal objects to be regarded as MT-Unsafe and
     AS-Unsafe, this mark is applied to writers only.  Writers remain
     equally MT- and AS-Unsafe to call, but the then-mandatory constness
     of objects they modify enables readers to be regarded as MT-Safe
     and AS-Safe (as long as no other reasons for them to be unsafe
     remain), since the lack of synchronization is not a problem when
     the objects are effectively constant.

     The identifier that follows the ‘const’ mark will appear by itself
     as a safety note in readers.  Programs that wish to work around
     this safety issue, so as to call writers, may use a non-recursve
     ‘rwlock’ associated with the identifier, and guard _all_ calls to
     functions marked with ‘const’ followed by the identifier with a
     write lock, and _all_ calls to functions marked with the identifier
     by itself with a read lock.  The non-recursive locking removes the
     MT-Safety problem, but it trades one AS-Safety problem for another,
     so use in asynchronous signals remains undefined.

   • ‘sig’

     Functions marked with ‘sig’ as a MT-Safety issue (that implies an
     identical AS-Safety issue, omitted for brevity) may temporarily
     install a signal handler for internal purposes, which may interfere
     with other uses of the signal, identified after a colon.

     This safety problem can be worked around by ensuring that no other
     uses of the signal will take place for the duration of the call.
     Holding a non-recursive mutex while calling all functions that use
     the same temporary signal; blocking that signal before the call and
     resetting its handler afterwards is recommended.

     There is no safe way to guarantee the original signal handler is
     restored in case of asynchronous cancellation, therefore so-marked
     functions are also AC-Unsafe.

     Besides the measures recommended to work around the MT- and
     AS-Safety problem, in order to avert the cancellation problem,
     disabling asynchronous cancellation _and_ installing a cleanup
     handler to restore the signal to the desired state and to release
     the mutex are recommended.

   • ‘term’

     Functions marked with ‘term’ as an MT-Safety issue may change the
     terminal settings in the recommended way, namely: call ‘tcgetattr’,
     modify some flags, and then call ‘tcsetattr’; this creates a window
     in which changes made by other threads are lost.  Thus, functions
     marked with ‘term’ are MT-Unsafe.  The same window enables changes
     made by asynchronous signals to be lost.  These functions are also
     AS-Unsafe, but the corresponding mark is omitted as redundant.

     It is thus advisable for applications using the terminal to avoid
     concurrent and reentrant interactions with it, by not using it in
     signal handlers or blocking signals that might use it, and holding
     a lock while calling these functions and interacting with the
     terminal.  This lock should also be used for mutual exclusion with
     functions marked with ‘race:tcattr(fd)’, where FD is a file
     descriptor for the controlling terminal.  The caller may use a
     single mutex for simplicity, or use one mutex per terminal, even if
     referenced by different file descriptors.

     Functions marked with ‘term’ as an AC-Safety issue are supposed to
     restore terminal settings to their original state, after
     temporarily changing them, but they may fail to do so if cancelled.

     Besides the measures recommended to work around the MT- and
     AS-Safety problem, in order to avert the cancellation problem,
     disabling asynchronous cancellation _and_ installing a cleanup
     handler to restore the terminal settings to the original state and
     to release the mutex are recommended.

File: libc.info,  Node: Other Safety Remarks,  Prev: Conditionally Safe Features,  Up: POSIX

1.2.2.4 Other Safety Remarks
............................

Additional keywords may be attached to functions, indicating features
that do not make a function unsafe to call, but that may need to be
taken into account in certain classes of programs:

   • ‘locale’

     Functions annotated with ‘locale’ as an MT-Safety issue read from
     the locale object without any form of synchronization.  Functions
     annotated with ‘locale’ called concurrently with locale changes may
     behave in ways that do not correspond to any of the locales active
     during their execution, but an unpredictable mix thereof.

     We do not mark these functions as MT- or AS-Unsafe, however,
     because functions that modify the locale object are marked with
     ‘const:locale’ and regarded as unsafe.  Being unsafe, the latter
     are not to be called when multiple threads are running or
     asynchronous signals are enabled, and so the locale can be
     considered effectively constant in these contexts, which makes the
     former safe.

   • ‘env’

     Functions marked with ‘env’ as an MT-Safety issue access the
     environment with ‘getenv’ or similar, without any guards to ensure
     safety in the presence of concurrent modifications.

     We do not mark these functions as MT- or AS-Unsafe, however,
     because functions that modify the environment are all marked with
     ‘const:env’ and regarded as unsafe.  Being unsafe, the latter are
     not to be called when multiple threads are running or asynchronous
     signals are enabled, and so the environment can be considered
     effectively constant in these contexts, which makes the former
     safe.

   • ‘hostid’

     The function marked with ‘hostid’ as an MT-Safety issue reads from
     the system-wide data structures that hold the “host ID” of the
     machine.  These data structures cannot generally be modified
     atomically.  Since it is expected that the “host ID” will not
     normally change, the function that reads from it (‘gethostid’) is
     regarded as safe, whereas the function that modifies it
     (‘sethostid’) is marked with ‘const:hostid’, indicating it may
     require special care if it is to be called.  In this specific case,
     the special care amounts to system-wide (not merely intra-process)
     coordination.

   • ‘sigintr’

     Functions marked with ‘sigintr’ as an MT-Safety issue access the
     ‘_sigintr’ internal data structure without any guards to ensure
     safety in the presence of concurrent modifications.

     We do not mark these functions as MT- or AS-Unsafe, however,
     because functions that modify the this data structure are all
     marked with ‘const:sigintr’ and regarded as unsafe.  Being unsafe,
     the latter are not to be called when multiple threads are running
     or asynchronous signals are enabled, and so the data structure can
     be considered effectively constant in these contexts, which makes
     the former safe.

   • ‘fd’

     Functions annotated with ‘fd’ as an AC-Safety issue may leak file
     descriptors if asynchronous thread cancellation interrupts their
     execution.

     Functions that allocate or deallocate file descriptors will
     generally be marked as such.  Even if they attempted to protect the
     file descriptor allocation and deallocation with cleanup regions,
     allocating a new descriptor and storing its number where the
     cleanup region could release it cannot be performed as a single
     atomic operation.  Similarly, releasing the descriptor and taking
     it out of the data structure normally responsible for releasing it
     cannot be performed atomically.  There will always be a window in
     which the descriptor cannot be released because it was not stored
     in the cleanup handler argument yet, or it was already taken out
     before releasing it.  It cannot be taken out after release: an open
     descriptor could mean either that the descriptor still has to be
     closed, or that it already did so but the descriptor was
     reallocated by another thread or signal handler.

     Such leaks could be internally avoided, with some performance
     penalty, by temporarily disabling asynchronous thread cancellation.
     However, since callers of allocation or deallocation functions
     would have to do this themselves, to avoid the same sort of leak in
     their own layer, it makes more sense for the library to assume they
     are taking care of it than to impose a performance penalty that is
     redundant when the problem is solved in upper layers, and
     insufficient when it is not.

     This remark by itself does not cause a function to be regarded as
     AC-Unsafe.  However, cumulative effects of such leaks may pose a
     problem for some programs.  If this is the case, suspending
     asynchronous cancellation for the duration of calls to such
     functions is recommended.

   • ‘mem’

     Functions annotated with ‘mem’ as an AC-Safety issue may leak
     memory if asynchronous thread cancellation interrupts their
     execution.

     The problem is similar to that of file descriptors: there is no
     atomic interface to allocate memory and store its address in the
     argument to a cleanup handler, or to release it and remove its
     address from that argument, without at least temporarily disabling
     asynchronous cancellation, which these functions do not do.

     This remark does not by itself cause a function to be regarded as
     generally AC-Unsafe.  However, cumulative effects of such leaks may
     be severe enough for some programs that disabling asynchronous
     cancellation for the duration of calls to such functions may be
     required.

   • ‘cwd’

     Functions marked with ‘cwd’ as an MT-Safety issue may temporarily
     change the current working directory during their execution, which
     may cause relative pathnames to be resolved in unexpected ways in
     other threads or within asynchronous signal or cancellation
     handlers.

     This is not enough of a reason to mark so-marked functions as MT-
     or AS-Unsafe, but when this behavior is optional (e.g., ‘nftw’ with
     ‘FTW_CHDIR’), avoiding the option may be a good alternative to
     using full pathnames or file descriptor-relative (e.g.  ‘openat’)
     system calls.

   • ‘!posix’

     This remark, as an MT-, AS- or AC-Safety note to a function,
     indicates the safety status of the function is known to differ from
     the specified status in the POSIX standard.  For example, POSIX
     does not require a function to be Safe, but our implementation is,
     or vice-versa.

     For the time being, the absence of this remark does not imply the
     safety properties we documented are identical to those mandated by
     POSIX for the corresponding functions.

   • ‘:identifier’

     Annotations may sometimes be followed by identifiers, intended to
     group several functions that e.g.  access the data structures in an
     unsafe way, as in ‘race’ and ‘const’, or to provide more specific
     information, such as naming a signal in a function marked with
     ‘sig’.  It is envisioned that it may be applied to ‘lock’ and
     ‘corrupt’ as well in the future.

     In most cases, the identifier will name a set of functions, but it
     may name global objects or function arguments, or identifiable
     properties or logical components associated with them, with a
     notation such as e.g.  ‘:buf(arg)’ to denote a buffer associated
     with the argument ARG, or ‘:tcattr(fd)’ to denote the terminal
     attributes of a file descriptor FD.

     The most common use for identifiers is to provide logical groups of
     functions and arguments that need to be protected by the same
     synchronization primitive in order to ensure safe operation in a
     given context.

   • ‘/condition’

     Some safety annotations may be conditional, in that they only apply
     if a boolean expression involving arguments, global variables or
     even the underlying kernel evaluates to true.  Such conditions as
     ‘/hurd’ or ‘/!linux!bsd’ indicate the preceding marker only applies
     when the underlying kernel is the HURD, or when it is neither Linux
     nor a BSD kernel, respectively.  ‘/!ps’ and ‘/one_per_line’
     indicate the preceding marker only applies when argument PS is
     NULL, or global variable ONE_PER_LINE is nonzero.

     When all marks that render a function unsafe are adorned with such
     conditions, and none of the named conditions hold, then the
     function can be regarded as safe.

File: libc.info,  Node: Berkeley Unix,  Next: SVID,  Prev: POSIX,  Up: Standards and Portability

1.2.3 Berkeley Unix
-------------------

The GNU C Library defines facilities from some versions of Unix which
are not formally standardized, specifically from the 4.2 BSD, 4.3 BSD,
and 4.4 BSD Unix systems (also known as “Berkeley Unix”) and from
“SunOS” (a popular 4.2 BSD derivative that includes some Unix System V
functionality).  These systems support most of the ISO C and POSIX
facilities, and 4.4 BSD and newer releases of SunOS in fact support them
all.

   The BSD facilities include symbolic links (*note Symbolic Links::),
the ‘select’ function (*note Waiting for I/O::), the BSD signal
functions (*note BSD Signal Handling::), and sockets (*note Sockets::).

File: libc.info,  Node: SVID,  Next: XPG,  Prev: Berkeley Unix,  Up: Standards and Portability

1.2.4 SVID (The System V Interface Description)
-----------------------------------------------

The “System V Interface Description” (SVID) is a document describing the
AT&T Unix System V operating system.  It is to some extent a superset of
the POSIX standard (*note POSIX::).

   The GNU C Library defines most of the facilities required by the SVID
that are not also required by the ISO C or POSIX standards, for
compatibility with System V Unix and other Unix systems (such as SunOS)
which include these facilities.  However, many of the more obscure and
less generally useful facilities required by the SVID are not included.
(In fact, Unix System V itself does not provide them all.)

   The supported facilities from System V include the methods for
inter-process communication and shared memory, the ‘hsearch’ and
‘drand48’ families of functions, ‘fmtmsg’ and several of the
mathematical functions.

File: libc.info,  Node: XPG,  Prev: SVID,  Up: Standards and Portability

1.2.5 XPG (The X/Open Portability Guide)
----------------------------------------

The X/Open Portability Guide, published by the X/Open Company, Ltd., is
a more general standard than POSIX. X/Open owns the Unix copyright and
the XPG specifies the requirements for systems which are intended to be
a Unix system.

   The GNU C Library complies to the X/Open Portability Guide, Issue
4.2, with all extensions common to XSI (X/Open System Interface)
compliant systems and also all X/Open UNIX extensions.

   The additions on top of POSIX are mainly derived from functionality
available in System V and BSD systems.  Some of the really bad mistakes
in System V systems were corrected, though.  Since fulfilling the XPG
standard with the Unix extensions is a precondition for getting the Unix
brand chances are good that the functionality is available on commercial
systems.

File: libc.info,  Node: Using the Library,  Next: Roadmap to the Manual,  Prev: Standards and Portability,  Up: Introduction

