3.5 Locking Pages
=================

You can tell the system to associate a particular virtual memory page
with a real page frame and keep it that way — i.e., cause the page to be
paged in if it isn’t already and mark it so it will never be paged out
and consequently will never cause a page fault.  This is called
“locking” a page.

   The functions in this chapter lock and unlock the calling process’
pages.

* Menu:

* Why Lock Pages::                Reasons to read this section.
* Locked Memory Details::         Everything you need to know locked
                                    memory
* Page Lock Functions::           Here’s how to do it.

File: libc.info,  Node: Why Lock Pages,  Next: Locked Memory Details,  Up: Locking Pages

3.5.1 Why Lock Pages
--------------------

Because page faults cause paged out pages to be paged in transparently,
a process rarely needs to be concerned about locking pages.  However,
there are two reasons people sometimes are:

   • Speed.  A page fault is transparent only insofar as the process is
     not sensitive to how long it takes to do a simple memory access.
     Time-critical processes, especially realtime processes, may not be
     able to wait or may not be able to tolerate variance in execution
     speed.

     A process that needs to lock pages for this reason probably also
     needs priority among other processes for use of the CPU. *Note
     Priority::.

     In some cases, the programmer knows better than the system’s demand
     paging allocator which pages should remain in real memory to
     optimize system performance.  In this case, locking pages can help.

   • Privacy.  If you keep secrets in virtual memory and that virtual
     memory gets paged out, that increases the chance that the secrets
     will get out.  If a passphrase gets written out to disk swap space,
     for example, it might still be there long after virtual and real
     memory have been wiped clean.

   Be aware that when you lock a page, that’s one fewer page frame that
can be used to back other virtual memory (by the same or other
processes), which can mean more page faults, which means the system runs
more slowly.  In fact, if you lock enough memory, some programs may not
be able to run at all for lack of real memory.

File: libc.info,  Node: Locked Memory Details,  Next: Page Lock Functions,  Prev: Why Lock Pages,  Up: Locking Pages

3.5.2 Locked Memory Details
---------------------------

A memory lock is associated with a virtual page, not a real frame.  The
paging rule is: If a frame backs at least one locked page, don’t page it
out.

   Memory locks do not stack.  I.e., you can’t lock a particular page
twice so that it has to be unlocked twice before it is truly unlocked.
It is either locked or it isn’t.

   A memory lock persists until the process that owns the memory
explicitly unlocks it.  (But process termination and exec cause the
virtual memory to cease to exist, which you might say means it isn’t
locked any more).

   Memory locks are not inherited by child processes.  (But note that on
a modern Unix system, immediately after a fork, the parent’s and the
child’s virtual address space are backed by the same real page frames,
so the child enjoys the parent’s locks).  *Note Creating a Process::.

   Because of its ability to impact other processes, only the superuser
can lock a page.  Any process can unlock its own page.

   The system sets limits on the amount of memory a process can have
locked and the amount of real memory it can have dedicated to it.  *Note
Limits on Resources::.

   In Linux, locked pages aren’t as locked as you might think.  Two
virtual pages that are not shared memory can nonetheless be backed by
the same real frame.  The kernel does this in the name of efficiency
when it knows both virtual pages contain identical data, and does it
even if one or both of the virtual pages are locked.

   But when a process modifies one of those pages, the kernel must get
it a separate frame and fill it with the page’s data.  This is known as
a “copy-on-write page fault”.  It takes a small amount of time and in a
pathological case, getting that frame may require I/O.

   To make sure this doesn’t happen to your program, don’t just lock the
pages.  Write to them as well, unless you know you won’t write to them
ever.  And to make sure you have pre-allocated frames for your stack,
enter a scope that declares a C automatic variable larger than the
maximum stack size you will need, set it to something, then return from
its scope.

File: libc.info,  Node: Page Lock Functions,  Prev: Locked Memory Details,  Up: Locking Pages

3.5.3 Functions To Lock And Unlock Pages
----------------------------------------

The symbols in this section are declared in ‘sys/mman.h’.  These
functions are defined by POSIX.1b, but their availability depends on
your kernel.  If your kernel doesn’t allow these functions, they exist
but always fail.  They _are_ available with a Linux kernel.

   *Portability Note:* POSIX.1b requires that when the ‘mlock’ and
‘munlock’ functions are available, the file ‘unistd.h’ define the macro
‘_POSIX_MEMLOCK_RANGE’ and the file ‘limits.h’ define the macro
‘PAGESIZE’ to be the size of a memory page in bytes.  It requires that
when the ‘mlockall’ and ‘munlockall’ functions are available, the
‘unistd.h’ file define the macro ‘_POSIX_MEMLOCK’.  The GNU C Library
conforms to this requirement.

 -- Function: int mlock (const void *ADDR, size_t LEN)

     Preliminary: | MT-Safe | AS-Safe | AC-Safe | *Note POSIX Safety
     Concepts::.

     ‘mlock’ locks a range of the calling process’ virtual pages.

     The range of memory starts at address ADDR and is LEN bytes long.
     Actually, since you must lock whole pages, it is the range of pages
     that include any part of the specified range.

     When the function returns successfully, each of those pages is
     backed by (connected to) a real frame (is resident) and is marked
     to stay that way.  This means the function may cause page-ins and
     have to wait for them.

     When the function fails, it does not affect the lock status of any
     pages.

     The return value is zero if the function succeeds.  Otherwise, it
     is ‘-1’ and ‘errno’ is set accordingly.  ‘errno’ values specific to
     this function are:

     ‘ENOMEM’
             • At least some of the specified address range does not
               exist in the calling process’ virtual address space.
             • The locking would cause the process to exceed its locked
               page limit.

     ‘EPERM’
          The calling process is not superuser.

     ‘EINVAL’
          LEN is not positive.

     ‘ENOSYS’
          The kernel does not provide ‘mlock’ capability.

 -- Function: int mlock2 (const void *ADDR, size_t LEN, unsigned int
          FLAGS)

     Preliminary: | MT-Safe | AS-Safe | AC-Safe | *Note POSIX Safety
     Concepts::.

     This function is similar to ‘mlock’.  If FLAGS is zero, a call to
     ‘mlock2’ behaves exactly as the equivalent call to ‘mlock’.

     The FLAGS argument must be a combination of zero or more of the
     following flags:

     ‘MLOCK_ONFAULT’

          Only those pages in the specified address range which are
          already in memory are locked immediately.  Additional pages in
          the range are automatically locked in case of a page fault and
          allocation of memory.

     Like ‘mlock’, ‘mlock2’ returns zero on success and ‘-1’ on failure,
     setting ‘errno’ accordingly.  Additional ‘errno’ values defined for
     ‘mlock2’ are:

     ‘EINVAL’
          The specified (non-zero) FLAGS argument is not supported by
          this system.

   You can lock _all_ a process’ memory with ‘mlockall’.  You unlock
memory with ‘munlock’ or ‘munlockall’.

   To avoid all page faults in a C program, you have to use ‘mlockall’,
because some of the memory a program uses is hidden from the C code,
e.g.  the stack and automatic variables, and you wouldn’t know what
address to tell ‘mlock’.

 -- Function: int munlock (const void *ADDR, size_t LEN)

     Preliminary: | MT-Safe | AS-Safe | AC-Safe | *Note POSIX Safety
     Concepts::.

     ‘munlock’ unlocks a range of the calling process’ virtual pages.

     ‘munlock’ is the inverse of ‘mlock’ and functions completely
     analogously to ‘mlock’, except that there is no ‘EPERM’ failure.

 -- Function: int mlockall (int FLAGS)

     Preliminary: | MT-Safe | AS-Safe | AC-Safe | *Note POSIX Safety
     Concepts::.

     ‘mlockall’ locks all the pages in a process’ virtual memory address
     space, and/or any that are added to it in the future.  This
     includes the pages of the code, data and stack segment, as well as
     shared libraries, user space kernel data, shared memory, and memory
     mapped files.

     FLAGS is a string of single bit flags represented by the following
     macros.  They tell ‘mlockall’ which of its functions you want.  All
     other bits must be zero.

     ‘MCL_CURRENT’
          Lock all pages which currently exist in the calling process’
          virtual address space.

     ‘MCL_FUTURE’
          Set a mode such that any pages added to the process’ virtual
          address space in the future will be locked from birth.  This
          mode does not affect future address spaces owned by the same
          process so exec, which replaces a process’ address space,
          wipes out ‘MCL_FUTURE’.  *Note Executing a File::.

     When the function returns successfully, and you specified
     ‘MCL_CURRENT’, all of the process’ pages are backed by (connected
     to) real frames (they are resident) and are marked to stay that
     way.  This means the function may cause page-ins and have to wait
     for them.

     When the process is in ‘MCL_FUTURE’ mode because it successfully
     executed this function and specified ‘MCL_CURRENT’, any system call
     by the process that requires space be added to its virtual address
     space fails with ‘errno’ = ‘ENOMEM’ if locking the additional space
     would cause the process to exceed its locked page limit.  In the
     case that the address space addition that can’t be accommodated is
     stack expansion, the stack expansion fails and the kernel sends a
     ‘SIGSEGV’ signal to the process.

     When the function fails, it does not affect the lock status of any
     pages or the future locking mode.

     The return value is zero if the function succeeds.  Otherwise, it
     is ‘-1’ and ‘errno’ is set accordingly.  ‘errno’ values specific to
     this function are:

     ‘ENOMEM’
             • At least some of the specified address range does not
               exist in the calling process’ virtual address space.
             • The locking would cause the process to exceed its locked
               page limit.

     ‘EPERM’
          The calling process is not superuser.

     ‘EINVAL’
          Undefined bits in FLAGS are not zero.

     ‘ENOSYS’
          The kernel does not provide ‘mlockall’ capability.

     You can lock just specific pages with ‘mlock’.  You unlock pages
     with ‘munlockall’ and ‘munlock’.

 -- Function: int munlockall (void)

     Preliminary: | MT-Safe | AS-Safe | AC-Safe | *Note POSIX Safety
     Concepts::.

     ‘munlockall’ unlocks every page in the calling process’ virtual
     address space and turns off ‘MCL_FUTURE’ future locking mode.

     The return value is zero if the function succeeds.  Otherwise, it
     is ‘-1’ and ‘errno’ is set accordingly.  The only way this function
     can fail is for generic reasons that all functions and system calls
     can fail, so there are no specific ‘errno’ values.

File: libc.info,  Node: Character Handling,  Next: String and Array Utilities,  Prev: Memory,  Up: Top

