11.1 Input/Output Concepts
==========================

Before you can read or write the contents of a file, you must establish
a connection or communications channel to the file.  This process is
called “opening” the file.  You can open a file for reading, writing, or
both.

   The connection to an open file is represented either as a stream or
as a file descriptor.  You pass this as an argument to the functions
that do the actual read or write operations, to tell them which file to
operate on.  Certain functions expect streams, and others are designed
to operate on file descriptors.

   When you have finished reading to or writing from the file, you can
terminate the connection by “closing” the file.  Once you have closed a
stream or file descriptor, you cannot do any more input or output
operations on it.

* Menu:

* Streams and File Descriptors::    The GNU C Library provides two ways
			             to access the contents of files.
* File Position::                   The number of bytes from the
                                     beginning of the file.

File: libc.info,  Node: Streams and File Descriptors,  Next: File Position,  Up: I/O Concepts

11.1.1 Streams and File Descriptors
-----------------------------------

When you want to do input or output to a file, you have a choice of two
basic mechanisms for representing the connection between your program
and the file: file descriptors and streams.  File descriptors are
represented as objects of type ‘int’, while streams are represented as
‘FILE *’ objects.

   File descriptors provide a primitive, low-level interface to input
and output operations.  Both file descriptors and streams can represent
a connection to a device (such as a terminal), or a pipe or socket for
communicating with another process, as well as a normal file.  But, if
you want to do control operations that are specific to a particular kind
of device, you must use a file descriptor; there are no facilities to
use streams in this way.  You must also use file descriptors if your
program needs to do input or output in special modes, such as
nonblocking (or polled) input (*note File Status Flags::).

   Streams provide a higher-level interface, layered on top of the
primitive file descriptor facilities.  The stream interface treats all
kinds of files pretty much alike—the sole exception being the three
styles of buffering that you can choose (*note Stream Buffering::).

   The main advantage of using the stream interface is that the set of
functions for performing actual input and output operations (as opposed
to control operations) on streams is much richer and more powerful than
the corresponding facilities for file descriptors.  The file descriptor
interface provides only simple functions for transferring blocks of
characters, but the stream interface also provides powerful formatted
input and output functions (‘printf’ and ‘scanf’) as well as functions
for character- and line-oriented input and output.

   Since streams are implemented in terms of file descriptors, you can
extract the file descriptor from a stream and perform low-level
operations directly on the file descriptor.  You can also initially open
a connection as a file descriptor and then make a stream associated with
that file descriptor.

   In general, you should stick with using streams rather than file
descriptors, unless there is some specific operation you want to do that
can only be done on a file descriptor.  If you are a beginning
programmer and aren’t sure what functions to use, we suggest that you
concentrate on the formatted input functions (*note Formatted Input::)
and formatted output functions (*note Formatted Output::).

   If you are concerned about portability of your programs to systems
other than GNU, you should also be aware that file descriptors are not
as portable as streams.  You can expect any system running ISO C to
support streams, but non-GNU systems may not support file descriptors at
all, or may only implement a subset of the GNU functions that operate on
file descriptors.  Most of the file descriptor functions in the GNU C
Library are included in the POSIX.1 standard, however.

File: libc.info,  Node: File Position,  Prev: Streams and File Descriptors,  Up: I/O Concepts

11.1.2 File Position
--------------------

One of the attributes of an open file is its “file position” that keeps
track of where in the file the next character is to be read or written.
On GNU systems, and all POSIX.1 systems, the file position is simply an
integer representing the number of bytes from the beginning of the file.

   The file position is normally set to the beginning of the file when
it is opened, and each time a character is read or written, the file
position is incremented.  In other words, access to the file is normally
“sequential”.

   Ordinary files permit read or write operations at any position within
the file.  Some other kinds of files may also permit this.  Files which
do permit this are sometimes referred to as “random-access” files.  You
can change the file position using the ‘fseek’ function on a stream
(*note File Positioning::) or the ‘lseek’ function on a file descriptor
(*note I/O Primitives::).  If you try to change the file position on a
file that doesn’t support random access, you get the ‘ESPIPE’ error.

   Streams and descriptors that are opened for “append access” are
treated specially for output: output to such files is _always_ appended
sequentially to the _end_ of the file, regardless of the file position.
However, the file position is still used to control where in the file
reading is done.

   If you think about it, you’ll realize that several programs can read
a given file at the same time.  In order for each program to be able to
read the file at its own pace, each program must have its own file
pointer, which is not affected by anything the other programs do.

   In fact, each opening of a file creates a separate file position.
Thus, if you open a file twice even in the same program, you get two
streams or descriptors with independent file positions.

   By contrast, if you open a descriptor and then duplicate it to get
another descriptor, these two descriptors share the same file position:
changing the file position of one descriptor will affect the other.

File: libc.info,  Node: File Names,  Prev: I/O Concepts,  Up: I/O Overview

