11.2 File Names
===============

In order to open a connection to a file, or to perform other operations
such as deleting a file, you need some way to refer to the file.  Nearly
all files have names that are strings—even files which are actually
devices such as tape drives or terminals.  These strings are called
“file names”.  You specify the file name to say which file you want to
open or operate on.

   This section describes the conventions for file names and how the
operating system works with them.

* Menu:

* Directories::                 Directories contain entries for files.
* File Name Resolution::        A file name specifies how to look up a file.
* File Name Errors::            Error conditions relating to file names.
* File Name Portability::       File name portability and syntax issues.

File: libc.info,  Node: Directories,  Next: File Name Resolution,  Up: File Names

11.2.1 Directories
------------------

In order to understand the syntax of file names, you need to understand
how the file system is organized into a hierarchy of directories.

   A “directory” is a file that contains information to associate other
files with names; these associations are called “links” or “directory
entries”.  Sometimes, people speak of “files in a directory”, but in
reality, a directory only contains pointers to files, not the files
themselves.

   The name of a file contained in a directory entry is called a “file
name component”.  In general, a file name consists of a sequence of one
or more such components, separated by the slash character (‘/’).  A file
name which is just one component names a file with respect to its
directory.  A file name with multiple components names a directory, and
then a file in that directory, and so on.

   Some other documents, such as the POSIX standard, use the term
“pathname” for what we call a file name, and either “filename” or
“pathname component” for what this manual calls a file name component.
We don’t use this terminology because a “path” is something completely
different (a list of directories to search), and we think that
“pathname” used for something else will confuse users.  We always use
“file name” and “file name component” (or sometimes just “component”,
where the context is obvious) in GNU documentation.  Some macros use the
POSIX terminology in their names, such as ‘PATH_MAX’.  These macros are
defined by the POSIX standard, so we cannot change their names.

   You can find more detailed information about operations on
directories in *note File System Interface::.

File: libc.info,  Node: File Name Resolution,  Next: File Name Errors,  Prev: Directories,  Up: File Names

11.2.2 File Name Resolution
---------------------------

A file name consists of file name components separated by slash (‘/’)
characters.  On the systems that the GNU C Library supports, multiple
successive ‘/’ characters are equivalent to a single ‘/’ character.

   The process of determining what file a file name refers to is called
“file name resolution”.  This is performed by examining the components
that make up a file name in left-to-right order, and locating each
successive component in the directory named by the previous component.
Of course, each of the files that are referenced as directories must
actually exist, be directories instead of regular files, and have the
appropriate permissions to be accessible by the process; otherwise the
file name resolution fails.

   If a file name begins with a ‘/’, the first component in the file
name is located in the “root directory” of the process (usually all
processes on the system have the same root directory).  Such a file name
is called an “absolute file name”.

   Otherwise, the first component in the file name is located in the
current working directory (*note Working Directory::).  This kind of
file name is called a “relative file name”.

   The file name components ‘.’ (“dot”) and ‘..’ (“dot-dot”) have
special meanings.  Every directory has entries for these file name
components.  The file name component ‘.’ refers to the directory itself,
while the file name component ‘..’ refers to its “parent directory” (the
directory that contains the link for the directory in question).  As a
special case, ‘..’ in the root directory refers to the root directory
itself, since it has no parent; thus ‘/..’ is the same as ‘/’.

   Here are some examples of file names:

‘/a’
     The file named ‘a’, in the root directory.

‘/a/b’
     The file named ‘b’, in the directory named ‘a’ in the root
     directory.

‘a’
     The file named ‘a’, in the current working directory.

‘/a/./b’
     This is the same as ‘/a/b’.

‘./a’
     The file named ‘a’, in the current working directory.

‘../a’
     The file named ‘a’, in the parent directory of the current working
     directory.

   A file name that names a directory may optionally end in a ‘/’.  You
can specify a file name of ‘/’ to refer to the root directory, but the
empty string is not a meaningful file name.  If you want to refer to the
current working directory, use a file name of ‘.’ or ‘./’.

   Unlike some other operating systems, GNU systems don’t have any
built-in support for file types (or extensions) or file versions as part
of its file name syntax.  Many programs and utilities use conventions
for file names—for example, files containing C source code usually have
names suffixed with ‘.c’—but there is nothing in the file system itself
that enforces this kind of convention.

File: libc.info,  Node: File Name Errors,  Next: File Name Portability,  Prev: File Name Resolution,  Up: File Names

11.2.3 File Name Errors
-----------------------

Functions that accept file name arguments usually detect these ‘errno’
error conditions relating to the file name syntax or trouble finding the
named file.  These errors are referred to throughout this manual as the
“usual file name errors”.

‘EACCES’
     The process does not have search permission for a directory
     component of the file name.

‘ENAMETOOLONG’
     This error is used when either the total length of a file name is
     greater than ‘PATH_MAX’, or when an individual file name component
     has a length greater than ‘NAME_MAX’.  *Note Limits for Files::.

     On GNU/Hurd systems, there is no imposed limit on overall file name
     length, but some file systems may place limits on the length of a
     component.

‘ENOENT’
     This error is reported when a file referenced as a directory
     component in the file name doesn’t exist, or when a component is a
     symbolic link whose target file does not exist.  *Note Symbolic
     Links::.

‘ENOTDIR’
     A file that is referenced as a directory component in the file name
     exists, but it isn’t a directory.

‘ELOOP’
     Too many symbolic links were resolved while trying to look up the
     file name.  The system has an arbitrary limit on the number of
     symbolic links that may be resolved in looking up a single file
     name, as a primitive way to detect loops.  *Note Symbolic Links::.

File: libc.info,  Node: File Name Portability,  Prev: File Name Errors,  Up: File Names

11.2.4 Portability of File Names
--------------------------------

The rules for the syntax of file names discussed in *note File Names::,
are the rules normally used by GNU systems and by other POSIX systems.
However, other operating systems may use other conventions.

   There are two reasons why it can be important for you to be aware of
file name portability issues:

   • If your program makes assumptions about file name syntax, or
     contains embedded literal file name strings, it is more difficult
     to get it to run under other operating systems that use different
     syntax conventions.

   • Even if you are not concerned about running your program on
     machines that run other operating systems, it may still be possible
     to access files that use different naming conventions.  For
     example, you may be able to access file systems on another computer
     running a different operating system over a network, or read and
     write disks in formats used by other operating systems.

   The ISO C standard says very little about file name syntax, only that
file names are strings.  In addition to varying restrictions on the
length of file names and what characters can validly appear in a file
name, different operating systems use different conventions and syntax
for concepts such as structured directories and file types or
extensions.  Some concepts such as file versions might be supported in
some operating systems and not by others.

   The POSIX.1 standard allows implementations to put additional
restrictions on file name syntax, concerning what characters are
permitted in file names and on the length of file name and file name
component strings.  However, on GNU systems, any character except the
null character is permitted in a file name string, and on GNU/Hurd
systems there are no limits on the length of file name strings.

File: libc.info,  Node: I/O on Streams,  Next: Low-Level I/O,  Prev: I/O Overview,  Up: Top

