12.22 Formatted Messages
========================

On systems which are based on System V messages of programs (especially
the system tools) are printed in a strict form using the ‘fmtmsg’
function.  The uniformity sometimes helps the user to interpret messages
and the strictness tests of the ‘fmtmsg’ function ensure that the
programmer follows some minimal requirements.

* Menu:

* Printing Formatted Messages::   The ‘fmtmsg’ function.
* Adding Severity Classes::       Add more severity classes.
* Example::                       How to use ‘fmtmsg’ and ‘addseverity’.

File: libc.info,  Node: Printing Formatted Messages,  Next: Adding Severity Classes,  Up: Formatted Messages

12.22.1 Printing Formatted Messages
-----------------------------------

Messages can be printed to standard error and/or to the console.  To
select the destination the programmer can use the following two values,
bitwise OR combined if wanted, for the CLASSIFICATION parameter of
‘fmtmsg’:

‘MM_PRINT’
     Display the message in standard error.
‘MM_CONSOLE’
     Display the message on the system console.

   The erroneous piece of the system can be signalled by exactly one of
the following values which also is bitwise ORed with the CLASSIFICATION
parameter to ‘fmtmsg’:

‘MM_HARD’
     The source of the condition is some hardware.
‘MM_SOFT’
     The source of the condition is some software.
‘MM_FIRM’
     The source of the condition is some firmware.

   A third component of the CLASSIFICATION parameter to ‘fmtmsg’ can
describe the part of the system which detects the problem.  This is done
by using exactly one of the following values:

‘MM_APPL’
     The erroneous condition is detected by the application.
‘MM_UTIL’
     The erroneous condition is detected by a utility.
‘MM_OPSYS’
     The erroneous condition is detected by the operating system.

   A last component of CLASSIFICATION can signal the results of this
message.  Exactly one of the following values can be used:

‘MM_RECOVER’
     It is a recoverable error.
‘MM_NRECOV’
     It is a non-recoverable error.

 -- Function: int fmtmsg (long int CLASSIFICATION, const char *LABEL,
          int SEVERITY, const char *TEXT, const char *ACTION, const char
          *TAG)

     Preliminary: | MT-Safe | AS-Unsafe lock | AC-Safe | *Note POSIX
     Safety Concepts::.

     Display a message described by its parameters on the device(s)
     specified in the CLASSIFICATION parameter.  The LABEL parameter
     identifies the source of the message.  The string should consist of
     two colon separated parts where the first part has not more than 10
     and the second part not more than 14 characters.  The TEXT
     parameter describes the condition of the error, the ACTION
     parameter possible steps to recover from the error and the TAG
     parameter is a reference to the online documentation where more
     information can be found.  It should contain the LABEL value and a
     unique identification number.

     Each of the parameters can be a special value which means this
     value is to be omitted.  The symbolic names for these values are:

     ‘MM_NULLLBL’
          Ignore LABEL parameter.
     ‘MM_NULLSEV’
          Ignore SEVERITY parameter.
     ‘MM_NULLMC’
          Ignore CLASSIFICATION parameter.  This implies that nothing is
          actually printed.
     ‘MM_NULLTXT’
          Ignore TEXT parameter.
     ‘MM_NULLACT’
          Ignore ACTION parameter.
     ‘MM_NULLTAG’
          Ignore TAG parameter.

     There is another way certain fields can be omitted from the output
     to standard error.  This is described below in the description of
     environment variables influencing the behavior.

     The SEVERITY parameter can have one of the values in the following
     table:

     ‘MM_NOSEV’
          Nothing is printed, this value is the same as ‘MM_NULLSEV’.
     ‘MM_HALT’
          This value is printed as ‘HALT’.
     ‘MM_ERROR’
          This value is printed as ‘ERROR’.
     ‘MM_WARNING’
          This value is printed as ‘WARNING’.
     ‘MM_INFO’
          This value is printed as ‘INFO’.

     The numeric value of these five macros are between ‘0’ and ‘4’.
     Using the environment variable ‘SEV_LEVEL’ or using the
     ‘addseverity’ function one can add more severity levels with their
     corresponding string to print.  This is described below (*note
     Adding Severity Classes::).

     If no parameter is ignored the output looks like this:

          LABEL: SEVERITY-STRING: TEXT
          TO FIX: ACTION TAG

     The colons, new line characters and the ‘TO FIX’ string are
     inserted if necessary, i.e., if the corresponding parameter is not
     ignored.

     This function is specified in the X/Open Portability Guide.  It is
     also available on all systems derived from System V.

     The function returns the value ‘MM_OK’ if no error occurred.  If
     only the printing to standard error failed, it returns ‘MM_NOMSG’.
     If printing to the console fails, it returns ‘MM_NOCON’.  If
     nothing is printed ‘MM_NOTOK’ is returned.  Among situations where
     all outputs fail this last value is also returned if a parameter
     value is incorrect.

   There are two environment variables which influence the behavior of
‘fmtmsg’.  The first is ‘MSGVERB’.  It is used to control the output
actually happening on standard error (_not_ the console output).  Each
of the five fields can explicitly be enabled.  To do this the user has
to put the ‘MSGVERB’ variable with a format like the following in the
environment before calling the ‘fmtmsg’ function the first time:

     MSGVERB=KEYWORD[:KEYWORD[:...]]

   Valid KEYWORDs are ‘label’, ‘severity’, ‘text’, ‘action’, and ‘tag’.
If the environment variable is not given or is the empty string, a not
supported keyword is given or the value is somehow else invalid, no part
of the message is masked out.

   The second environment variable which influences the behavior of
‘fmtmsg’ is ‘SEV_LEVEL’.  This variable and the change in the behavior
of ‘fmtmsg’ is not specified in the X/Open Portability Guide.  It is
available in System V systems, though.  It can be used to introduce new
severity levels.  By default, only the five severity levels described
above are available.  Any other numeric value would make ‘fmtmsg’ print
nothing.

   If the user puts ‘SEV_LEVEL’ with a format like

     SEV_LEVEL=[DESCRIPTION[:DESCRIPTION[:...]]]

in the environment of the process before the first call to ‘fmtmsg’,
where DESCRIPTION has a value of the form

     SEVERITY-KEYWORD,LEVEL,PRINTSTRING

   The SEVERITY-KEYWORD part is not used by ‘fmtmsg’ but it has to be
present.  The LEVEL part is a string representation of a number.  The
numeric value must be a number greater than 4.  This value must be used
in the SEVERITY parameter of ‘fmtmsg’ to select this class.  It is not
possible to overwrite any of the predefined classes.  The PRINTSTRING is
the string printed when a message of this class is processed by ‘fmtmsg’
(see above, ‘fmtsmg’ does not print the numeric value but instead the
string representation).

File: libc.info,  Node: Adding Severity Classes,  Next: Example,  Prev: Printing Formatted Messages,  Up: Formatted Messages

12.22.2 Adding Severity Classes
-------------------------------

There is another possibility to introduce severity classes besides using
the environment variable ‘SEV_LEVEL’.  This simplifies the task of
introducing new classes in a running program.  One could use the
‘setenv’ or ‘putenv’ function to set the environment variable, but this
is toilsome.

 -- Function: int addseverity (int SEVERITY, const char *STRING)
     Preliminary: | MT-Safe | AS-Unsafe heap lock | AC-Unsafe lock mem |
     *Note POSIX Safety Concepts::.

     This function allows the introduction of new severity classes which
     can be addressed by the SEVERITY parameter of the ‘fmtmsg’
     function.  The SEVERITY parameter of ‘addseverity’ must match the
     value for the parameter with the same name of ‘fmtmsg’, and STRING
     is the string printed in the actual messages instead of the numeric
     value.

     If STRING is ‘NULL’ the severity class with the numeric value
     according to SEVERITY is removed.

     It is not possible to overwrite or remove one of the default
     severity classes.  All calls to ‘addseverity’ with SEVERITY set to
     one of the values for the default classes will fail.

     The return value is ‘MM_OK’ if the task was successfully performed.
     If the return value is ‘MM_NOTOK’ something went wrong.  This could
     mean that no more memory is available or a class is not available
     when it has to be removed.

     This function is not specified in the X/Open Portability Guide
     although the ‘fmtsmg’ function is.  It is available on System V
     systems.

File: libc.info,  Node: Example,  Prev: Adding Severity Classes,  Up: Formatted Messages

12.22.3 How to use ‘fmtmsg’ and ‘addseverity’
---------------------------------------------

Here is a simple example program to illustrate the use of both functions
described in this section.


     #include <fmtmsg.h>

     int
     main (void)
     {
       addseverity (5, "NOTE2");
       fmtmsg (MM_PRINT, "only1field", MM_INFO, "text2", "action2", "tag2");
       fmtmsg (MM_PRINT, "UX:cat", 5, "invalid syntax", "refer to manual",
               "UX:cat:001");
       fmtmsg (MM_PRINT, "label:foo", 6, "text", "action", "tag");
       return 0;
     }

   The second call to ‘fmtmsg’ illustrates a use of this function as it
usually occurs on System V systems, which heavily use this function.  It
seems worthwhile to give a short explanation here of how this system
works on System V. The value of the LABEL field (‘UX:cat’) says that the
error occurred in the Unix program ‘cat’.  The explanation of the error
follows and the value for the ACTION parameter is ‘"refer to manual"’.
One could be more specific here, if necessary.  The TAG field contains,
as proposed above, the value of the string given for the LABEL
parameter, and additionally a unique ID (‘001’ in this case).  For a GNU
environment this string could contain a reference to the corresponding
node in the Info page for the program.

Running this program without specifying the ‘MSGVERB’ and ‘SEV_LEVEL’
function produces the following output:

     UX:cat: NOTE2: invalid syntax
     TO FIX: refer to manual UX:cat:001

   We see the different fields of the message and how the extra glue
(the colons and the ‘TO FIX’ string) is printed.  But only one of the
three calls to ‘fmtmsg’ produced output.  The first call does not print
anything because the LABEL parameter is not in the correct form.  The
string must contain two fields, separated by a colon (*note Printing
Formatted Messages::).  The third ‘fmtmsg’ call produced no output since
the class with the numeric value ‘6’ is not defined.  Although a class
with numeric value ‘5’ is also not defined by default, the call to
‘addseverity’ introduces it and the second call to ‘fmtmsg’ produces the
above output.

   When we change the environment of the program to contain
‘SEV_LEVEL=XXX,6,NOTE’ when running it we get a different result:

     UX:cat: NOTE2: invalid syntax
     TO FIX: refer to manual UX:cat:001
     label:foo: NOTE: text
     TO FIX: action tag

   Now the third call to ‘fmtmsg’ produced some output and we see how
the string ‘NOTE’ from the environment variable appears in the message.

   Now we can reduce the output by specifying which fields we are
interested in.  If we additionally set the environment variable
‘MSGVERB’ to the value ‘severity:label:action’ we get the following
output:

     UX:cat: NOTE2
     TO FIX: refer to manual
     label:foo: NOTE
     TO FIX: action

I.e., the output produced by the TEXT and the TAG parameters to ‘fmtmsg’
vanished.  Please also note that now there is no colon after the ‘NOTE’
and ‘NOTE2’ strings in the output.  This is not necessary since there is
no more output on this line because the text is missing.

File: libc.info,  Node: Low-Level I/O,  Next: File System Interface,  Prev: I/O on Streams,  Up: Top

