17.4 Terminal Modes
===================

This section describes the various terminal attributes that control how
input and output are done.  The functions, data structures, and symbolic
constants are all declared in the header file ‘termios.h’.

   Don’t confuse terminal attributes with file attributes.  A device
special file which is associated with a terminal has file attributes as
described in *note File Attributes::.  These are unrelated to the
attributes of the terminal device itself, which are discussed in this
section.

* Menu:

* Mode Data Types::             The data type ‘struct termios’ and
                                 related types.
* Mode Functions::              Functions to read and set the terminal
                                 attributes.
* Setting Modes::               The right way to set terminal attributes
                                 reliably.
* Input Modes::                 Flags controlling low-level input handling.
* Output Modes::                Flags controlling low-level output handling.
* Control Modes::               Flags controlling serial port behavior.
* Local Modes::                 Flags controlling high-level input handling.
* Line Speed::                  How to read and set the terminal line speed.
* Special Characters::          Characters that have special effects,
			         and how to change them.
* Noncanonical Input::          Controlling how long to wait for input.

File: libc.info,  Node: Mode Data Types,  Next: Mode Functions,  Up: Terminal Modes

17.4.1 Terminal Mode Data Types
-------------------------------

The entire collection of attributes of a terminal is stored in a
structure of type ‘struct termios’.  This structure is used with the
functions ‘tcgetattr’ and ‘tcsetattr’ to read and set the attributes.

 -- Data Type: struct termios

     A ‘struct termios’ records all the I/O attributes of a terminal.
     The structure includes at least the following members:

     ‘tcflag_t c_iflag’
          A bit mask specifying flags for input modes; see *note Input
          Modes::.

     ‘tcflag_t c_oflag’
          A bit mask specifying flags for output modes; see *note Output
          Modes::.

     ‘tcflag_t c_cflag’
          A bit mask specifying flags for control modes; see *note
          Control Modes::.

     ‘tcflag_t c_lflag’
          A bit mask specifying flags for local modes; see *note Local
          Modes::.

     ‘cc_t c_cc[NCCS]’
          An array specifying which characters are associated with
          various control functions; see *note Special Characters::.

     The ‘struct termios’ structure also contains members which encode
     input and output transmission speeds, but the representation is not
     specified.  *Note Line Speed::, for how to examine and store the
     speed values.

   The following sections describe the details of the members of the
‘struct termios’ structure.

 -- Data Type: tcflag_t

     This is an unsigned integer type used to represent the various bit
     masks for terminal flags.

 -- Data Type: cc_t

     This is an unsigned integer type used to represent characters
     associated with various terminal control functions.

 -- Macro: int NCCS

     The value of this macro is the number of elements in the ‘c_cc’
     array.

File: libc.info,  Node: Mode Functions,  Next: Setting Modes,  Prev: Mode Data Types,  Up: Terminal Modes

17.4.2 Terminal Mode Functions
------------------------------

 -- Function: int tcgetattr (int FILEDES, struct termios *TERMIOS-P)

     Preliminary: | MT-Safe | AS-Safe | AC-Safe | *Note POSIX Safety
     Concepts::.

     This function is used to examine the attributes of the terminal
     device with file descriptor FILEDES.  The attributes are returned
     in the structure that TERMIOS-P points to.

     If successful, ‘tcgetattr’ returns 0.  A return value of -1
     indicates an error.  The following ‘errno’ error conditions are
     defined for this function:

     ‘EBADF’
          The FILEDES argument is not a valid file descriptor.

     ‘ENOTTY’
          The FILEDES is not associated with a terminal.

 -- Function: int tcsetattr (int FILEDES, int WHEN, const struct termios
          *TERMIOS-P)

     Preliminary: | MT-Safe | AS-Safe | AC-Safe | *Note POSIX Safety
     Concepts::.

     This function sets the attributes of the terminal device with file
     descriptor FILEDES.  The new attributes are taken from the
     structure that TERMIOS-P points to.

     The WHEN argument specifies how to deal with input and output
     already queued.  It can be one of the following values:

     ‘TCSANOW’

          Make the change immediately.

     ‘TCSADRAIN’

          Make the change after waiting until all queued output has been
          written.  You should usually use this option when changing
          parameters that affect output.

     ‘TCSAFLUSH’

          This is like ‘TCSADRAIN’, but also discards any queued input.

     ‘TCSASOFT’

          This is a flag bit that you can add to any of the above
          alternatives.  Its meaning is to inhibit alteration of the
          state of the terminal hardware.  It is a BSD extension; it is
          only supported on BSD systems and GNU/Hurd systems.

          Using ‘TCSASOFT’ is exactly the same as setting the ‘CIGNORE’
          bit in the ‘c_cflag’ member of the structure TERMIOS-P points
          to.  *Note Control Modes::, for a description of ‘CIGNORE’.

     If this function is called from a background process on its
     controlling terminal, normally all processes in the process group
     are sent a ‘SIGTTOU’ signal, in the same way as if the process were
     trying to write to the terminal.  The exception is if the calling
     process itself is ignoring or blocking ‘SIGTTOU’ signals, in which
     case the operation is performed and no signal is sent.  *Note Job
     Control::.

     If successful, ‘tcsetattr’ returns 0.  A return value of -1
     indicates an error.  The following ‘errno’ error conditions are
     defined for this function:

     ‘EBADF’
          The FILEDES argument is not a valid file descriptor.

     ‘ENOTTY’
          The FILEDES is not associated with a terminal.

     ‘EINVAL’
          Either the value of the ‘when’ argument is not valid, or there
          is something wrong with the data in the TERMIOS-P argument.

   Although ‘tcgetattr’ and ‘tcsetattr’ specify the terminal device with
a file descriptor, the attributes are those of the terminal device
itself and not of the file descriptor.  This means that the effects of
changing terminal attributes are persistent; if another process opens
the terminal file later on, it will see the changed attributes even
though it doesn’t have anything to do with the open file descriptor you
originally specified in changing the attributes.

   Similarly, if a single process has multiple or duplicated file
descriptors for the same terminal device, changing the terminal
attributes affects input and output to all of these file descriptors.
This means, for example, that you can’t open one file descriptor or
stream to read from a terminal in the normal line-buffered, echoed mode;
and simultaneously have another file descriptor for the same terminal
that you use to read from it in single-character, non-echoed mode.
Instead, you have to explicitly switch the terminal back and forth
between the two modes.

File: libc.info,  Node: Setting Modes,  Next: Input Modes,  Prev: Mode Functions,  Up: Terminal Modes

17.4.3 Setting Terminal Modes Properly
--------------------------------------

When you set terminal modes, you should call ‘tcgetattr’ first to get
the current modes of the particular terminal device, modify only those
modes that you are really interested in, and store the result with
‘tcsetattr’.

   It’s a bad idea to simply initialize a ‘struct termios’ structure to
a chosen set of attributes and pass it directly to ‘tcsetattr’.  Your
program may be run years from now, on systems that support members not
documented in this manual.  The way to avoid setting these members to
unreasonable values is to avoid changing them.

   What’s more, different terminal devices may require different mode
settings in order to function properly.  So you should avoid blindly
copying attributes from one terminal device to another.

   When a member contains a collection of independent flags, as the
‘c_iflag’, ‘c_oflag’ and ‘c_cflag’ members do, even setting the entire
member is a bad idea, because particular operating systems have their
own flags.  Instead, you should start with the current value of the
member and alter only the flags whose values matter in your program,
leaving any other flags unchanged.

   Here is an example of how to set one flag (‘ISTRIP’) in the ‘struct
termios’ structure while properly preserving all the other data in the
structure:

     int
     set_istrip (int desc, int value)
     {
       struct termios settings;
       int result;

       result = tcgetattr (desc, &settings);
       if (result < 0)
         {
           perror ("error in tcgetattr");
           return 0;
         }
       settings.c_iflag &= ~ISTRIP;
       if (value)
         settings.c_iflag |= ISTRIP;
       result = tcsetattr (desc, TCSANOW, &settings);
       if (result < 0)
         {
           perror ("error in tcsetattr");
           return 0;
        }
       return 1;
     }

File: libc.info,  Node: Input Modes,  Next: Output Modes,  Prev: Setting Modes,  Up: Terminal Modes

17.4.4 Input Modes
------------------

This section describes the terminal attribute flags that control fairly
low-level aspects of input processing: handling of parity errors, break
signals, flow control, and <RET> and <LFD> characters.

   All of these flags are bits in the ‘c_iflag’ member of the ‘struct
termios’ structure.  The member is an integer, and you change flags
using the operators ‘&’, ‘|’ and ‘^’.  Don’t try to specify the entire
value for ‘c_iflag’—instead, change only specific flags and leave the
rest untouched (*note Setting Modes::).

 -- Macro: tcflag_t INPCK

     If this bit is set, input parity checking is enabled.  If it is not
     set, no checking at all is done for parity errors on input; the
     characters are simply passed through to the application.

     Parity checking on input processing is independent of whether
     parity detection and generation on the underlying terminal hardware
     is enabled; see *note Control Modes::.  For example, you could
     clear the ‘INPCK’ input mode flag and set the ‘PARENB’ control mode
     flag to ignore parity errors on input, but still generate parity on
     output.

     If this bit is set, what happens when a parity error is detected
     depends on whether the ‘IGNPAR’ or ‘PARMRK’ bits are set.  If
     neither of these bits are set, a byte with a parity error is passed
     to the application as a ‘'\0'’ character.

 -- Macro: tcflag_t IGNPAR

     If this bit is set, any byte with a framing or parity error is
     ignored.  This is only useful if ‘INPCK’ is also set.

 -- Macro: tcflag_t PARMRK

     If this bit is set, input bytes with parity or framing errors are
     marked when passed to the program.  This bit is meaningful only
     when ‘INPCK’ is set and ‘IGNPAR’ is not set.

     The way erroneous bytes are marked is with two preceding bytes,
     ‘377’ and ‘0’.  Thus, the program actually reads three bytes for
     one erroneous byte received from the terminal.

     If a valid byte has the value ‘0377’, and ‘ISTRIP’ (see below) is
     not set, the program might confuse it with the prefix that marks a
     parity error.  So a valid byte ‘0377’ is passed to the program as
     two bytes, ‘0377’ ‘0377’, in this case.

 -- Macro: tcflag_t ISTRIP

     If this bit is set, valid input bytes are stripped to seven bits;
     otherwise, all eight bits are available for programs to read.

 -- Macro: tcflag_t IGNBRK

     If this bit is set, break conditions are ignored.

     A “break condition” is defined in the context of asynchronous
     serial data transmission as a series of zero-value bits longer than
     a single byte.

 -- Macro: tcflag_t BRKINT

     If this bit is set and ‘IGNBRK’ is not set, a break condition
     clears the terminal input and output queues and raises a ‘SIGINT’
     signal for the foreground process group associated with the
     terminal.

     If neither ‘BRKINT’ nor ‘IGNBRK’ are set, a break condition is
     passed to the application as a single ‘'\0'’ character if ‘PARMRK’
     is not set, or otherwise as a three-character sequence ‘'\377'’,
     ‘'\0'’, ‘'\0'’.

 -- Macro: tcflag_t IGNCR

     If this bit is set, carriage return characters (‘'\r'’) are
     discarded on input.  Discarding carriage return may be useful on
     terminals that send both carriage return and linefeed when you type
     the <RET> key.

 -- Macro: tcflag_t ICRNL

     If this bit is set and ‘IGNCR’ is not set, carriage return
     characters (‘'\r'’) received as input are passed to the application
     as newline characters (‘'\n'’).

 -- Macro: tcflag_t INLCR

     If this bit is set, newline characters (‘'\n'’) received as input
     are passed to the application as carriage return characters
     (‘'\r'’).

 -- Macro: tcflag_t IXOFF

     If this bit is set, start/stop control on input is enabled.  In
     other words, the computer sends STOP and START characters as
     necessary to prevent input from coming in faster than programs are
     reading it.  The idea is that the actual terminal hardware that is
     generating the input data responds to a STOP character by
     suspending transmission, and to a START character by resuming
     transmission.  *Note Start/Stop Characters::.

 -- Macro: tcflag_t IXON

     If this bit is set, start/stop control on output is enabled.  In
     other words, if the computer receives a STOP character, it suspends
     output until a START character is received.  In this case, the STOP
     and START characters are never passed to the application program.
     If this bit is not set, then START and STOP can be read as ordinary
     characters.  *Note Start/Stop Characters::.

 -- Macro: tcflag_t IXANY

     If this bit is set, any input character restarts output when output
     has been suspended with the STOP character.  Otherwise, only the
     START character restarts output.

     This is a BSD extension; it exists only on BSD systems and
     GNU/Linux and GNU/Hurd systems.

 -- Macro: tcflag_t IMAXBEL

     If this bit is set, then filling up the terminal input buffer sends
     a BEL character (code ‘007’) to the terminal to ring the bell.

     This is a BSD extension.

File: libc.info,  Node: Output Modes,  Next: Control Modes,  Prev: Input Modes,  Up: Terminal Modes

17.4.5 Output Modes
-------------------

This section describes the terminal flags and fields that control how
output characters are translated and padded for display.  All of these
are contained in the ‘c_oflag’ member of the ‘struct termios’ structure.

   The ‘c_oflag’ member itself is an integer, and you change the flags
and fields using the operators ‘&’, ‘|’, and ‘^’.  Don’t try to specify
the entire value for ‘c_oflag’—instead, change only specific flags and
leave the rest untouched (*note Setting Modes::).

 -- Macro: tcflag_t OPOST

     If this bit is set, output data is processed in some unspecified
     way so that it is displayed appropriately on the terminal device.
     This typically includes mapping newline characters (‘'\n'’) onto
     carriage return and linefeed pairs.

     If this bit isn’t set, the characters are transmitted as-is.

   The following three bits are effective only if ‘OPOST’ is set.

 -- Macro: tcflag_t ONLCR

     If this bit is set, convert the newline character on output into a
     pair of characters, carriage return followed by linefeed.

 -- Macro: tcflag_t OXTABS

     If this bit is set, convert tab characters on output into the
     appropriate number of spaces to emulate a tab stop every eight
     columns.  This bit exists only on BSD systems and GNU/Hurd systems;
     on GNU/Linux systems it is available as ‘XTABS’.

 -- Macro: tcflag_t ONOEOT

     If this bit is set, discard ‘C-d’ characters (code ‘004’) on
     output.  These characters cause many dial-up terminals to
     disconnect.  This bit exists only on BSD systems and GNU/Hurd
     systems.

File: libc.info,  Node: Control Modes,  Next: Local Modes,  Prev: Output Modes,  Up: Terminal Modes

17.4.6 Control Modes
--------------------

This section describes the terminal flags and fields that control
parameters usually associated with asynchronous serial data
transmission.  These flags may not make sense for other kinds of
terminal ports (such as a network connection pseudo-terminal).  All of
these are contained in the ‘c_cflag’ member of the ‘struct termios’
structure.

   The ‘c_cflag’ member itself is an integer, and you change the flags
and fields using the operators ‘&’, ‘|’, and ‘^’.  Don’t try to specify
the entire value for ‘c_cflag’—instead, change only specific flags and
leave the rest untouched (*note Setting Modes::).

 -- Macro: tcflag_t CLOCAL

     If this bit is set, it indicates that the terminal is connected
     “locally” and that the modem status lines (such as carrier detect)
     should be ignored.

     On many systems if this bit is not set and you call ‘open’ without
     the ‘O_NONBLOCK’ flag set, ‘open’ blocks until a modem connection
     is established.

     If this bit is not set and a modem disconnect is detected, a
     ‘SIGHUP’ signal is sent to the controlling process group for the
     terminal (if it has one).  Normally, this causes the process to
     exit; see *note Signal Handling::.  Reading from the terminal after
     a disconnect causes an end-of-file condition, and writing causes an
     ‘EIO’ error to be returned.  The terminal device must be closed and
     reopened to clear the condition.

 -- Macro: tcflag_t HUPCL

     If this bit is set, a modem disconnect is generated when all
     processes that have the terminal device open have either closed the
     file or exited.

 -- Macro: tcflag_t CREAD

     If this bit is set, input can be read from the terminal.
     Otherwise, input is discarded when it arrives.

 -- Macro: tcflag_t CSTOPB

     If this bit is set, two stop bits are used.  Otherwise, only one
     stop bit is used.

 -- Macro: tcflag_t PARENB

     If this bit is set, generation and detection of a parity bit are
     enabled.  *Note Input Modes::, for information on how input parity
     errors are handled.

     If this bit is not set, no parity bit is added to output
     characters, and input characters are not checked for correct
     parity.

 -- Macro: tcflag_t PARODD

     This bit is only useful if ‘PARENB’ is set.  If ‘PARODD’ is set,
     odd parity is used, otherwise even parity is used.

   The control mode flags also includes a field for the number of bits
per character.  You can use the ‘CSIZE’ macro as a mask to extract the
value, like this: ‘settings.c_cflag & CSIZE’.

 -- Macro: tcflag_t CSIZE

     This is a mask for the number of bits per character.

 -- Macro: tcflag_t CS5

     This specifies five bits per byte.

 -- Macro: tcflag_t CS6

     This specifies six bits per byte.

 -- Macro: tcflag_t CS7

     This specifies seven bits per byte.

 -- Macro: tcflag_t CS8

     This specifies eight bits per byte.

   The following four bits are BSD extensions; these exist only on BSD
systems and GNU/Hurd systems.

 -- Macro: tcflag_t CCTS_OFLOW

     If this bit is set, enable flow control of output based on the CTS
     wire (RS232 protocol).

 -- Macro: tcflag_t CRTS_IFLOW

     If this bit is set, enable flow control of input based on the RTS
     wire (RS232 protocol).

 -- Macro: tcflag_t MDMBUF

     If this bit is set, enable carrier-based flow control of output.

 -- Macro: tcflag_t CIGNORE

     If this bit is set, it says to ignore the control modes and line
     speed values entirely.  This is only meaningful in a call to
     ‘tcsetattr’.

     The ‘c_cflag’ member and the line speed values returned by
     ‘cfgetispeed’ and ‘cfgetospeed’ will be unaffected by the call.
     ‘CIGNORE’ is useful if you want to set all the software modes in
     the other members, but leave the hardware details in ‘c_cflag’
     unchanged.  (This is how the ‘TCSASOFT’ flag to ‘tcsettattr’
     works.)

     This bit is never set in the structure filled in by ‘tcgetattr’.

File: libc.info,  Node: Local Modes,  Next: Line Speed,  Prev: Control Modes,  Up: Terminal Modes

17.4.7 Local Modes
------------------

This section describes the flags for the ‘c_lflag’ member of the ‘struct
termios’ structure.  These flags generally control higher-level aspects
of input processing than the input modes flags described in *note Input
Modes::, such as echoing, signals, and the choice of canonical or
noncanonical input.

   The ‘c_lflag’ member itself is an integer, and you change the flags
and fields using the operators ‘&’, ‘|’, and ‘^’.  Don’t try to specify
the entire value for ‘c_lflag’—instead, change only specific flags and
leave the rest untouched (*note Setting Modes::).

 -- Macro: tcflag_t ICANON

     This bit, if set, enables canonical input processing mode.
     Otherwise, input is processed in noncanonical mode.  *Note
     Canonical or Not::.

 -- Macro: tcflag_t ECHO

     If this bit is set, echoing of input characters back to the
     terminal is enabled.

 -- Macro: tcflag_t ECHOE

     If this bit is set, echoing indicates erasure of input with the
     ERASE character by erasing the last character in the current line
     from the screen.  Otherwise, the character erased is re-echoed to
     show what has happened (suitable for a printing terminal).

     This bit only controls the display behavior; the ‘ICANON’ bit by
     itself controls actual recognition of the ERASE character and
     erasure of input, without which ‘ECHOE’ is simply irrelevant.

 -- Macro: tcflag_t ECHOPRT

     This bit, like ‘ECHOE’, enables display of the ERASE character in a
     way that is geared to a hardcopy terminal.  When you type the ERASE
     character, a ‘\’ character is printed followed by the first
     character erased.  Typing the ERASE character again just prints the
     next character erased.  Then, the next time you type a normal
     character, a ‘/’ character is printed before the character echoes.

     This is a BSD extension, and exists only in BSD systems and
     GNU/Linux and GNU/Hurd systems.

 -- Macro: tcflag_t ECHOK

     This bit enables special display of the KILL character by moving to
     a new line after echoing the KILL character normally.  The behavior
     of ‘ECHOKE’ (below) is nicer to look at.

     If this bit is not set, the KILL character echoes just as it would
     if it were not the KILL character.  Then it is up to the user to
     remember that the KILL character has erased the preceding input;
     there is no indication of this on the screen.

     This bit only controls the display behavior; the ‘ICANON’ bit by
     itself controls actual recognition of the KILL character and
     erasure of input, without which ‘ECHOK’ is simply irrelevant.

 -- Macro: tcflag_t ECHOKE

     This bit is similar to ‘ECHOK’.  It enables special display of the
     KILL character by erasing on the screen the entire line that has
     been killed.  This is a BSD extension, and exists only in BSD
     systems and GNU/Linux and GNU/Hurd systems.

 -- Macro: tcflag_t ECHONL

     If this bit is set and the ‘ICANON’ bit is also set, then the
     newline (‘'\n'’) character is echoed even if the ‘ECHO’ bit is not
     set.

 -- Macro: tcflag_t ECHOCTL

     If this bit is set and the ‘ECHO’ bit is also set, echo control
     characters with ‘^’ followed by the corresponding text character.
     Thus, control-A echoes as ‘^A’.  This is usually the preferred mode
     for interactive input, because echoing a control character back to
     the terminal could have some undesired effect on the terminal.

     This is a BSD extension, and exists only in BSD systems and
     GNU/Linux and GNU/Hurd systems.

 -- Macro: tcflag_t ISIG

     This bit controls whether the INTR, QUIT, and SUSP characters are
     recognized.  The functions associated with these characters are
     performed if and only if this bit is set.  Being in canonical or
     noncanonical input mode has no effect on the interpretation of
     these characters.

     You should use caution when disabling recognition of these
     characters.  Programs that cannot be interrupted interactively are
     very user-unfriendly.  If you clear this bit, your program should
     provide some alternate interface that allows the user to
     interactively send the signals associated with these characters, or
     to escape from the program.

     *Note Signal Characters::.

 -- Macro: tcflag_t IEXTEN

     POSIX.1 gives ‘IEXTEN’ implementation-defined meaning, so you
     cannot rely on this interpretation on all systems.

     On BSD systems and GNU/Linux and GNU/Hurd systems, it enables the
     LNEXT and DISCARD characters.  *Note Other Special::.

 -- Macro: tcflag_t NOFLSH

     Normally, the INTR, QUIT, and SUSP characters cause input and
     output queues for the terminal to be cleared.  If this bit is set,
     the queues are not cleared.

 -- Macro: tcflag_t TOSTOP

     If this bit is set and the system supports job control, then
     ‘SIGTTOU’ signals are generated by background processes that
     attempt to write to the terminal.  *Note Access to the Terminal::.

   The following bits are BSD extensions; they exist only on BSD systems
and GNU/Hurd systems.

 -- Macro: tcflag_t ALTWERASE

     This bit determines how far the WERASE character should erase.  The
     WERASE character erases back to the beginning of a word; the
     question is, where do words begin?

     If this bit is clear, then the beginning of a word is a
     nonwhitespace character following a whitespace character.  If the
     bit is set, then the beginning of a word is an alphanumeric
     character or underscore following a character which is none of
     those.

     *Note Editing Characters::, for more information about the WERASE
     character.

 -- Macro: tcflag_t FLUSHO

     This is the bit that toggles when the user types the DISCARD
     character.  While this bit is set, all output is discarded.  *Note
     Other Special::.

 -- Macro: tcflag_t NOKERNINFO

     Setting this bit disables handling of the STATUS character.  *Note
     Other Special::.

 -- Macro: tcflag_t PENDIN

     If this bit is set, it indicates that there is a line of input that
     needs to be reprinted.  Typing the REPRINT character sets this bit;
     the bit remains set until reprinting is finished.  *Note Editing
     Characters::.

File: libc.info,  Node: Line Speed,  Next: Special Characters,  Prev: Local Modes,  Up: Terminal Modes

17.4.8 Line Speed
-----------------

The terminal line speed tells the computer how fast to read and write
data on the terminal.

   If the terminal is connected to a real serial line, the terminal
speed you specify actually controls the line—if it doesn’t match the
terminal’s own idea of the speed, communication does not work.  Real
serial ports accept only certain standard speeds.  Also, particular
hardware may not support even all the standard speeds.  Specifying a
speed of zero hangs up a dialup connection and turns off modem control
signals.

   If the terminal is not a real serial line (for example, if it is a
network connection), then the line speed won’t really affect data
transmission speed, but some programs will use it to determine the
amount of padding needed.  It’s best to specify a line speed value that
matches the actual speed of the actual terminal, but you can safely
experiment with different values to vary the amount of padding.

   There are actually two line speeds for each terminal, one for input
and one for output.  You can set them independently, but most often
terminals use the same speed for both directions.

   The speed values are stored in the ‘struct termios’ structure, but
don’t try to access them in the ‘struct termios’ structure directly.
Instead, you should use the following functions to read and store them:

 -- Function: speed_t cfgetospeed (const struct termios *TERMIOS-P)

     Preliminary: | MT-Safe | AS-Safe | AC-Safe | *Note POSIX Safety
     Concepts::.

     This function returns the output line speed stored in the structure
     ‘*TERMIOS-P’.

 -- Function: speed_t cfgetispeed (const struct termios *TERMIOS-P)

     Preliminary: | MT-Safe | AS-Safe | AC-Safe | *Note POSIX Safety
     Concepts::.

     This function returns the input line speed stored in the structure
     ‘*TERMIOS-P’.

 -- Function: int cfsetospeed (struct termios *TERMIOS-P, speed_t SPEED)

     Preliminary: | MT-Safe | AS-Safe | AC-Safe | *Note POSIX Safety
     Concepts::.

     This function stores SPEED in ‘*TERMIOS-P’ as the output speed.
     The normal return value is 0; a value of -1 indicates an error.  If
     SPEED is not a speed, ‘cfsetospeed’ returns -1.

 -- Function: int cfsetispeed (struct termios *TERMIOS-P, speed_t SPEED)

     Preliminary: | MT-Safe | AS-Safe | AC-Safe | *Note POSIX Safety
     Concepts::.

     This function stores SPEED in ‘*TERMIOS-P’ as the input speed.  The
     normal return value is 0; a value of -1 indicates an error.  If
     SPEED is not a speed, ‘cfsetospeed’ returns -1.

 -- Function: int cfsetspeed (struct termios *TERMIOS-P, speed_t SPEED)

     Preliminary: | MT-Safe | AS-Safe | AC-Safe | *Note POSIX Safety
     Concepts::.

     This function stores SPEED in ‘*TERMIOS-P’ as both the input and
     output speeds.  The normal return value is 0; a value of -1
     indicates an error.  If SPEED is not a speed, ‘cfsetspeed’ returns
     -1.  This function is an extension in 4.4 BSD.

 -- Data Type: speed_t

     The ‘speed_t’ type is an unsigned integer data type used to
     represent line speeds.

   The functions ‘cfsetospeed’ and ‘cfsetispeed’ report errors only for
speed values that the system simply cannot handle.  If you specify a
speed value that is basically acceptable, then those functions will
succeed.  But they do not check that a particular hardware device can
actually support the specified speeds—in fact, they don’t know which
device you plan to set the speed for.  If you use ‘tcsetattr’ to set the
speed of a particular device to a value that it cannot handle,
‘tcsetattr’ returns -1.

   *Portability note:* In the GNU C Library, the functions above accept
speeds measured in bits per second as input, and return speed values
measured in bits per second.  Other libraries require speeds to be
indicated by special codes.  For POSIX.1 portability, you must use one
of the following symbols to represent the speed; their precise numeric
values are system-dependent, but each name has a fixed meaning: ‘B110’
stands for 110 bps, ‘B300’ for 300 bps, and so on.  There is no portable
way to represent any speed but these, but these are the only speeds that
typical serial lines can support.

     B0  B50  B75  B110  B134  B150  B200
     B300  B600  B1200  B1800  B2400  B4800
     B9600  B19200  B38400  B57600  B115200
     B230400  B460800

   BSD defines two additional speed symbols as aliases: ‘EXTA’ is an
alias for ‘B19200’ and ‘EXTB’ is an alias for ‘B38400’.  These aliases
are obsolete.

File: libc.info,  Node: Special Characters,  Next: Noncanonical Input,  Prev: Line Speed,  Up: Terminal Modes

17.4.9 Special Characters
-------------------------

In canonical input, the terminal driver recognizes a number of special
characters which perform various control functions.  These include the
ERASE character (usually <DEL>) for editing input, and other editing
characters.  The INTR character (normally ‘C-c’) for sending a ‘SIGINT’
signal, and other signal-raising characters, may be available in either
canonical or noncanonical input mode.  All these characters are
described in this section.

   The particular characters used are specified in the ‘c_cc’ member of
the ‘struct termios’ structure.  This member is an array; each element
specifies the character for a particular role.  Each element has a
symbolic constant that stands for the index of that element—for example,
‘VINTR’ is the index of the element that specifies the INTR character,
so storing ‘'='’ in ‘TERMIOS.c_cc[VINTR]’ specifies ‘=’ as the INTR
character.

   On some systems, you can disable a particular special character
function by specifying the value ‘_POSIX_VDISABLE’ for that role.  This
value is unequal to any possible character code.  *Note Options for
Files::, for more information about how to tell whether the operating
system you are using supports ‘_POSIX_VDISABLE’.

* Menu:

* Editing Characters::          Special characters that terminate lines and
                                  delete text, and other editing functions.
* Signal Characters::           Special characters that send or raise signals
                                  to or for certain classes of processes.
* Start/Stop Characters::       Special characters that suspend or resume
                                  suspended output.
* Other Special::		Other special characters for BSD systems:
				  they can discard output, and print status.

File: libc.info,  Node: Editing Characters,  Next: Signal Characters,  Up: Special Characters

17.4.9.1 Characters for Input Editing
.....................................

These special characters are active only in canonical input mode.  *Note
Canonical or Not::.

 -- Macro: int VEOF

     This is the subscript for the EOF character in the special control
     character array.  ‘TERMIOS.c_cc[VEOF]’ holds the character itself.

     The EOF character is recognized only in canonical input mode.  It
     acts as a line terminator in the same way as a newline character,
     but if the EOF character is typed at the beginning of a line it
     causes ‘read’ to return a byte count of zero, indicating
     end-of-file.  The EOF character itself is discarded.

     Usually, the EOF character is ‘C-d’.

 -- Macro: int VEOL

     This is the subscript for the EOL character in the special control
     character array.  ‘TERMIOS.c_cc[VEOL]’ holds the character itself.

     The EOL character is recognized only in canonical input mode.  It
     acts as a line terminator, just like a newline character.  The EOL
     character is not discarded; it is read as the last character in the
     input line.

     You don’t need to use the EOL character to make <RET> end a line.
     Just set the ICRNL flag.  In fact, this is the default state of
     affairs.

 -- Macro: int VEOL2

     This is the subscript for the EOL2 character in the special control
     character array.  ‘TERMIOS.c_cc[VEOL2]’ holds the character itself.

     The EOL2 character works just like the EOL character (see above),
     but it can be a different character.  Thus, you can specify two
     characters to terminate an input line, by setting EOL to one of
     them and EOL2 to the other.

     The EOL2 character is a BSD extension; it exists only on BSD
     systems and GNU/Linux and GNU/Hurd systems.

 -- Macro: int VERASE

     This is the subscript for the ERASE character in the special
     control character array.  ‘TERMIOS.c_cc[VERASE]’ holds the
     character itself.

     The ERASE character is recognized only in canonical input mode.
     When the user types the erase character, the previous character
     typed is discarded.  (If the terminal generates multibyte character
     sequences, this may cause more than one byte of input to be
     discarded.)  This cannot be used to erase past the beginning of the
     current line of text.  The ERASE character itself is discarded.

     Usually, the ERASE character is <DEL>.

 -- Macro: int VWERASE

     This is the subscript for the WERASE character in the special
     control character array.  ‘TERMIOS.c_cc[VWERASE]’ holds the
     character itself.

     The WERASE character is recognized only in canonical mode.  It
     erases an entire word of prior input, and any whitespace after it;
     whitespace characters before the word are not erased.

     The definition of a “word” depends on the setting of the
     ‘ALTWERASE’ mode; *note Local Modes::.

     If the ‘ALTWERASE’ mode is not set, a word is defined as a sequence
     of any characters except space or tab.

     If the ‘ALTWERASE’ mode is set, a word is defined as a sequence of
     characters containing only letters, numbers, and underscores,
     optionally followed by one character that is not a letter, number,
     or underscore.

     The WERASE character is usually ‘C-w’.

     This is a BSD extension.

 -- Macro: int VKILL

     This is the subscript for the KILL character in the special control
     character array.  ‘TERMIOS.c_cc[VKILL]’ holds the character itself.

     The KILL character is recognized only in canonical input mode.
     When the user types the kill character, the entire contents of the
     current line of input are discarded.  The kill character itself is
     discarded too.

     The KILL character is usually ‘C-u’.

 -- Macro: int VREPRINT

     This is the subscript for the REPRINT character in the special
     control character array.  ‘TERMIOS.c_cc[VREPRINT]’ holds the
     character itself.

     The REPRINT character is recognized only in canonical mode.  It
     reprints the current input line.  If some asynchronous output has
     come while you are typing, this lets you see the line you are
     typing clearly again.

     The REPRINT character is usually ‘C-r’.

     This is a BSD extension.

File: libc.info,  Node: Signal Characters,  Next: Start/Stop Characters,  Prev: Editing Characters,  Up: Special Characters

17.4.9.2 Characters that Cause Signals
......................................

These special characters may be active in either canonical or
noncanonical input mode, but only when the ‘ISIG’ flag is set (*note
Local Modes::).

 -- Macro: int VINTR

     This is the subscript for the INTR character in the special control
     character array.  ‘TERMIOS.c_cc[VINTR]’ holds the character itself.

     The INTR (interrupt) character raises a ‘SIGINT’ signal for all
     processes in the foreground job associated with the terminal.  The
     INTR character itself is then discarded.  *Note Signal Handling::,
     for more information about signals.

     Typically, the INTR character is ‘C-c’.

 -- Macro: int VQUIT

     This is the subscript for the QUIT character in the special control
     character array.  ‘TERMIOS.c_cc[VQUIT]’ holds the character itself.

     The QUIT character raises a ‘SIGQUIT’ signal for all processes in
     the foreground job associated with the terminal.  The QUIT
     character itself is then discarded.  *Note Signal Handling::, for
     more information about signals.

     Typically, the QUIT character is ‘C-\’.

 -- Macro: int VSUSP

     This is the subscript for the SUSP character in the special control
     character array.  ‘TERMIOS.c_cc[VSUSP]’ holds the character itself.

     The SUSP (suspend) character is recognized only if the
     implementation supports job control (*note Job Control::).  It
     causes a ‘SIGTSTP’ signal to be sent to all processes in the
     foreground job associated with the terminal.  The SUSP character
     itself is then discarded.  *Note Signal Handling::, for more
     information about signals.

     Typically, the SUSP character is ‘C-z’.

   Few applications disable the normal interpretation of the SUSP
character.  If your program does this, it should provide some other
mechanism for the user to stop the job.  When the user invokes this
mechanism, the program should send a ‘SIGTSTP’ signal to the process
group of the process, not just to the process itself.  *Note Signaling
Another Process::.

 -- Macro: int VDSUSP

     This is the subscript for the DSUSP character in the special
     control character array.  ‘TERMIOS.c_cc[VDSUSP]’ holds the
     character itself.

     The DSUSP (suspend) character is recognized only if the
     implementation supports job control (*note Job Control::).  It
     sends a ‘SIGTSTP’ signal, like the SUSP character, but not right
     away—only when the program tries to read it as input.  Not all
     systems with job control support DSUSP; only BSD-compatible systems
     do (including GNU/Hurd systems).

     *Note Signal Handling::, for more information about signals.

     Typically, the DSUSP character is ‘C-y’.

File: libc.info,  Node: Start/Stop Characters,  Next: Other Special,  Prev: Signal Characters,  Up: Special Characters

17.4.9.3 Special Characters for Flow Control
............................................

These special characters may be active in either canonical or
noncanonical input mode, but their use is controlled by the flags ‘IXON’
and ‘IXOFF’ (*note Input Modes::).

 -- Macro: int VSTART

     This is the subscript for the START character in the special
     control character array.  ‘TERMIOS.c_cc[VSTART]’ holds the
     character itself.

     The START character is used to support the ‘IXON’ and ‘IXOFF’ input
     modes.  If ‘IXON’ is set, receiving a START character resumes
     suspended output; the START character itself is discarded.  If
     ‘IXANY’ is set, receiving any character at all resumes suspended
     output; the resuming character is not discarded unless it is the
     START character.  If ‘IXOFF’ is set, the system may also transmit
     START characters to the terminal.

     The usual value for the START character is ‘C-q’.  You may not be
     able to change this value—the hardware may insist on using ‘C-q’
     regardless of what you specify.

 -- Macro: int VSTOP

     This is the subscript for the STOP character in the special control
     character array.  ‘TERMIOS.c_cc[VSTOP]’ holds the character itself.

     The STOP character is used to support the ‘IXON’ and ‘IXOFF’ input
     modes.  If ‘IXON’ is set, receiving a STOP character causes output
     to be suspended; the STOP character itself is discarded.  If
     ‘IXOFF’ is set, the system may also transmit STOP characters to the
     terminal, to prevent the input queue from overflowing.

     The usual value for the STOP character is ‘C-s’.  You may not be
     able to change this value—the hardware may insist on using ‘C-s’
     regardless of what you specify.

File: libc.info,  Node: Other Special,  Prev: Start/Stop Characters,  Up: Special Characters

17.4.9.4 Other Special Characters
.................................

 -- Macro: int VLNEXT

     This is the subscript for the LNEXT character in the special
     control character array.  ‘TERMIOS.c_cc[VLNEXT]’ holds the
     character itself.

     The LNEXT character is recognized only when ‘IEXTEN’ is set, but in
     both canonical and noncanonical mode.  It disables any special
     significance of the next character the user types.  Even if the
     character would normally perform some editing function or generate
     a signal, it is read as a plain character.  This is the analogue of
     the ‘C-q’ command in Emacs.  “LNEXT” stands for “literal next.”

     The LNEXT character is usually ‘C-v’.

     This character is available on BSD systems and GNU/Linux and
     GNU/Hurd systems.

 -- Macro: int VDISCARD

     This is the subscript for the DISCARD character in the special
     control character array.  ‘TERMIOS.c_cc[VDISCARD]’ holds the
     character itself.

     The DISCARD character is recognized only when ‘IEXTEN’ is set, but
     in both canonical and noncanonical mode.  Its effect is to toggle
     the discard-output flag.  When this flag is set, all program output
     is discarded.  Setting the flag also discards all output currently
     in the output buffer.  Typing any other character resets the flag.

     This character is available on BSD systems and GNU/Linux and
     GNU/Hurd systems.

 -- Macro: int VSTATUS

     This is the subscript for the STATUS character in the special
     control character array.  ‘TERMIOS.c_cc[VSTATUS]’ holds the
     character itself.

     The STATUS character’s effect is to print out a status message
     about how the current process is running.

     The STATUS character is recognized only in canonical mode, and only
     if ‘NOKERNINFO’ is not set.

     This character is available only on BSD systems and GNU/Hurd
     systems.

File: libc.info,  Node: Noncanonical Input,  Prev: Special Characters,  Up: Terminal Modes

17.4.10 Noncanonical Input
--------------------------

In noncanonical input mode, the special editing characters such as ERASE
and KILL are ignored.  The system facilities for the user to edit input
are disabled in noncanonical mode, so that all input characters (unless
they are special for signal or flow-control purposes) are passed to the
application program exactly as typed.  It is up to the application
program to give the user ways to edit the input, if appropriate.

   Noncanonical mode offers special parameters called MIN and TIME for
controlling whether and how long to wait for input to be available.  You
can even use them to avoid ever waiting—to return immediately with
whatever input is available, or with no input.

   The MIN and TIME are stored in elements of the ‘c_cc’ array, which is
a member of the ‘struct termios’ structure.  Each element of this array
has a particular role, and each element has a symbolic constant that
stands for the index of that element.  ‘VMIN’ and ‘VTIME’ are the names
for the indices in the array of the MIN and TIME slots.

 -- Macro: int VMIN

     This is the subscript for the MIN slot in the ‘c_cc’ array.  Thus,
     ‘TERMIOS.c_cc[VMIN]’ is the value itself.

     The MIN slot is only meaningful in noncanonical input mode; it
     specifies the minimum number of bytes that must be available in the
     input queue in order for ‘read’ to return.

 -- Macro: int VTIME

     This is the subscript for the TIME slot in the ‘c_cc’ array.  Thus,
     ‘TERMIOS.c_cc[VTIME]’ is the value itself.

     The TIME slot is only meaningful in noncanonical input mode; it
     specifies how long to wait for input before returning, in units of
     0.1 seconds.

   The MIN and TIME values interact to determine the criterion for when
‘read’ should return; their precise meanings depend on which of them are
nonzero.  There are four possible cases:

   • Both TIME and MIN are nonzero.

     In this case, TIME specifies how long to wait after each input
     character to see if more input arrives.  After the first character
     received, ‘read’ keeps waiting until either MIN bytes have arrived
     in all, or TIME elapses with no further input.

     ‘read’ always blocks until the first character arrives, even if
     TIME elapses first.  ‘read’ can return more than MIN characters if
     more than MIN happen to be in the queue.

   • Both MIN and TIME are zero.

     In this case, ‘read’ always returns immediately with as many
     characters as are available in the queue, up to the number
     requested.  If no input is immediately available, ‘read’ returns a
     value of zero.

   • MIN is zero but TIME has a nonzero value.

     In this case, ‘read’ waits for time TIME for input to become
     available; the availability of a single byte is enough to satisfy
     the read request and cause ‘read’ to return.  When it returns, it
     returns as many characters as are available, up to the number
     requested.  If no input is available before the timer expires,
     ‘read’ returns a value of zero.

   • TIME is zero but MIN has a nonzero value.

     In this case, ‘read’ waits until at least MIN bytes are available
     in the queue.  At that time, ‘read’ returns as many characters as
     are available, up to the number requested.  ‘read’ can return more
     than MIN characters if more than MIN happen to be in the queue.

   What happens if MIN is 50 and you ask to read just 10 bytes?
Normally, ‘read’ waits until there are 50 bytes in the buffer (or, more
generally, the wait condition described above is satisfied), and then
reads 10 of them, leaving the other 40 buffered in the operating system
for a subsequent call to ‘read’.

   *Portability note:* On some systems, the MIN and TIME slots are
actually the same as the EOF and EOL slots.  This causes no serious
problem because the MIN and TIME slots are used only in noncanonical
input and the EOF and EOL slots are used only in canonical input, but it
isn’t very clean.  The GNU C Library allocates separate slots for these
uses.

 -- Function: void cfmakeraw (struct termios *TERMIOS-P)

     Preliminary: | MT-Safe | AS-Safe | AC-Safe | *Note POSIX Safety
     Concepts::.

     This function provides an easy way to set up ‘*TERMIOS-P’ for what
     has traditionally been called “raw mode” in BSD. This uses
     noncanonical input, and turns off most processing to give an
     unmodified channel to the terminal.

     It does exactly this:
            TERMIOS-P->c_iflag &= ~(IGNBRK|BRKINT|PARMRK|ISTRIP
                                          |INLCR|IGNCR|ICRNL|IXON);
            TERMIOS-P->c_oflag &= ~OPOST;
            TERMIOS-P->c_lflag &= ~(ECHO|ECHONL|ICANON|ISIG|IEXTEN);
            TERMIOS-P->c_cflag &= ~(CSIZE|PARENB);
            TERMIOS-P->c_cflag |= CS8;

File: libc.info,  Node: BSD Terminal Modes,  Next: Line Control,  Prev: Terminal Modes,  Up: Low-Level Terminal Interface

