22.3 Process CPU Priority And Scheduling
========================================

When multiple processes simultaneously require CPU time, the system’s
scheduling policy and process CPU priorities determine which processes
get it.  This section describes how that determination is made and GNU C
Library functions to control it.

   It is common to refer to CPU scheduling simply as scheduling and a
process’ CPU priority simply as the process’ priority, with the CPU
resource being implied.  Bear in mind, though, that CPU time is not the
only resource a process uses or that processes contend for.  In some
cases, it is not even particularly important.  Giving a process a high
“priority” may have very little effect on how fast a process runs with
respect to other processes.  The priorities discussed in this section
apply only to CPU time.

   CPU scheduling is a complex issue and different systems do it in
wildly different ways.  New ideas continually develop and find their way
into the intricacies of the various systems’ scheduling algorithms.
This section discusses the general concepts, some specifics of systems
that commonly use the GNU C Library, and some standards.

   For simplicity, we talk about CPU contention as if there is only one
CPU in the system.  But all the same principles apply when a processor
has multiple CPUs, and knowing that the number of processes that can run
at any one time is equal to the number of CPUs, you can easily
extrapolate the information.

   The functions described in this section are all defined by the
POSIX.1 and POSIX.1b standards (the ‘sched...’ functions are POSIX.1b).
However, POSIX does not define any semantics for the values that these
functions get and set.  In this chapter, the semantics are based on the
Linux kernel’s implementation of the POSIX standard.  As you will see,
the Linux implementation is quite the inverse of what the authors of the
POSIX syntax had in mind.

* Menu:

* Absolute Priority::               The first tier of priority.  Posix
* Realtime Scheduling::             Scheduling among the process nobility
* Basic Scheduling Functions::      Get/set scheduling policy, priority
* Traditional Scheduling::          Scheduling among the vulgar masses
* CPU Affinity::                    Limiting execution to certain CPUs

File: libc.info,  Node: Absolute Priority,  Next: Realtime Scheduling,  Up: Priority

22.3.1 Absolute Priority
------------------------

Every process has an absolute priority, and it is represented by a
number.  The higher the number, the higher the absolute priority.

   On systems of the past, and most systems today, all processes have
absolute priority 0 and this section is irrelevant.  In that case, *Note
Traditional Scheduling::.  Absolute priorities were invented to
accommodate realtime systems, in which it is vital that certain
processes be able to respond to external events happening in real time,
which means they cannot wait around while some other process that _wants
to_, but doesn’t _need to_ run occupies the CPU.

   When two processes are in contention to use the CPU at any instant,
the one with the higher absolute priority always gets it.  This is true
even if the process with the lower priority is already using the CPU
(i.e., the scheduling is preemptive).  Of course, we’re only talking
about processes that are running or “ready to run,” which means they are
ready to execute instructions right now.  When a process blocks to wait
for something like I/O, its absolute priority is irrelevant.

   *NB:* The term “runnable” is a synonym for “ready to run.”

   When two processes are running or ready to run and both have the same
absolute priority, it’s more interesting.  In that case, who gets the
CPU is determined by the scheduling policy.  If the processes have
absolute priority 0, the traditional scheduling policy described in
*note Traditional Scheduling:: applies.  Otherwise, the policies
described in *note Realtime Scheduling:: apply.

   You normally give an absolute priority above 0 only to a process that
can be trusted not to hog the CPU. Such processes are designed to block
(or terminate) after relatively short CPU runs.

   A process begins life with the same absolute priority as its parent
process.  Functions described in *note Basic Scheduling Functions:: can
change it.

   Only a privileged process can change a process’ absolute priority to
something other than ‘0’.  Only a privileged process or the target
process’ owner can change its absolute priority at all.

   POSIX requires absolute priority values used with the realtime
scheduling policies to be consecutive with a range of at least 32.  On
Linux, they are 1 through 99.  The functions ‘sched_get_priority_max’
and ‘sched_set_priority_min’ portably tell you what the range is on a
particular system.

22.3.1.1 Using Absolute Priority
................................

One thing you must keep in mind when designing real time applications is
that having higher absolute priority than any other process doesn’t
guarantee the process can run continuously.  Two things that can wreck a
good CPU run are interrupts and page faults.

   Interrupt handlers live in that limbo between processes.  The CPU is
executing instructions, but they aren’t part of any process.  An
interrupt will stop even the highest priority process.  So you must
allow for slight delays and make sure that no device in the system has
an interrupt handler that could cause too long a delay between
instructions for your process.

   Similarly, a page fault causes what looks like a straightforward
sequence of instructions to take a long time.  The fact that other
processes get to run while the page faults in is of no consequence,
because as soon as the I/O is complete, the higher priority process will
kick them out and run again, but the wait for the I/O itself could be a
problem.  To neutralize this threat, use ‘mlock’ or ‘mlockall’.

   There are a few ramifications of the absoluteness of this priority on
a single-CPU system that you need to keep in mind when you choose to set
a priority and also when you’re working on a program that runs with high
absolute priority.  Consider a process that has higher absolute priority
than any other process in the system and due to a bug in its program, it
gets into an infinite loop.  It will never cede the CPU. You can’t run a
command to kill it because your command would need to get the CPU in
order to run.  The errant program is in complete control.  It controls
the vertical, it controls the horizontal.

   There are two ways to avoid this: 1) keep a shell running somewhere
with a higher absolute priority or 2) keep a controlling terminal
attached to the high priority process group.  All the priority in the
world won’t stop an interrupt handler from running and delivering a
signal to the process if you hit Control-C.

   Some systems use absolute priority as a means of allocating a fixed
percentage of CPU time to a process.  To do this, a super high priority
privileged process constantly monitors the process’ CPU usage and raises
its absolute priority when the process isn’t getting its entitled share
and lowers it when the process is exceeding it.

   *NB:* The absolute priority is sometimes called the “static
priority.” We don’t use that term in this manual because it misses the
most important feature of the absolute priority: its absoluteness.

File: libc.info,  Node: Realtime Scheduling,  Next: Basic Scheduling Functions,  Prev: Absolute Priority,  Up: Priority

22.3.2 Realtime Scheduling
--------------------------

Whenever two processes with the same absolute priority are ready to run,
the kernel has a decision to make, because only one can run at a time.
If the processes have absolute priority 0, the kernel makes this
decision as described in *note Traditional Scheduling::.  Otherwise, the
decision is as described in this section.

   If two processes are ready to run but have different absolute
priorities, the decision is much simpler, and is described in *note
Absolute Priority::.

   Each process has a scheduling policy.  For processes with absolute
priority other than zero, there are two available:

  1. First Come First Served
  2. Round Robin

   The most sensible case is where all the processes with a certain
absolute priority have the same scheduling policy.  We’ll discuss that
first.

   In Round Robin, processes share the CPU, each one running for a small
quantum of time (“time slice”) and then yielding to another in a
circular fashion.  Of course, only processes that are ready to run and
have the same absolute priority are in this circle.

   In First Come First Served, the process that has been waiting the
longest to run gets the CPU, and it keeps it until it voluntarily
relinquishes the CPU, runs out of things to do (blocks), or gets
preempted by a higher priority process.

   First Come First Served, along with maximal absolute priority and
careful control of interrupts and page faults, is the one to use when a
process absolutely, positively has to run at full CPU speed or not at
all.

   Judicious use of ‘sched_yield’ function invocations by processes with
First Come First Served scheduling policy forms a good compromise
between Round Robin and First Come First Served.

   To understand how scheduling works when processes of different
scheduling policies occupy the same absolute priority, you have to know
the nitty gritty details of how processes enter and exit the ready to
run list.

   In both cases, the ready to run list is organized as a true queue,
where a process gets pushed onto the tail when it becomes ready to run
and is popped off the head when the scheduler decides to run it.  Note
that ready to run and running are two mutually exclusive states.  When
the scheduler runs a process, that process is no longer ready to run and
no longer in the ready to run list.  When the process stops running, it
may go back to being ready to run again.

   The only difference between a process that is assigned the Round
Robin scheduling policy and a process that is assigned First Come First
Serve is that in the former case, the process is automatically booted
off the CPU after a certain amount of time.  When that happens, the
process goes back to being ready to run, which means it enters the queue
at the tail.  The time quantum we’re talking about is small.  Really
small.  This is not your father’s timesharing.  For example, with the
Linux kernel, the round robin time slice is a thousand times shorter
than its typical time slice for traditional scheduling.

   A process begins life with the same scheduling policy as its parent
process.  Functions described in *note Basic Scheduling Functions:: can
change it.

   Only a privileged process can set the scheduling policy of a process
that has absolute priority higher than 0.

File: libc.info,  Node: Basic Scheduling Functions,  Next: Traditional Scheduling,  Prev: Realtime Scheduling,  Up: Priority

22.3.3 Basic Scheduling Functions
---------------------------------

This section describes functions in the GNU C Library for setting the
absolute priority and scheduling policy of a process.

   *Portability Note:* On systems that have the functions in this
section, the macro _POSIX_PRIORITY_SCHEDULING is defined in
‘<unistd.h>’.

   For the case that the scheduling policy is traditional scheduling,
more functions to fine tune the scheduling are in *note Traditional
Scheduling::.

   Don’t try to make too much out of the naming and structure of these
functions.  They don’t match the concepts described in this manual
because the functions are as defined by POSIX.1b, but the implementation
on systems that use the GNU C Library is the inverse of what the POSIX
structure contemplates.  The POSIX scheme assumes that the primary
scheduling parameter is the scheduling policy and that the priority
value, if any, is a parameter of the scheduling policy.  In the
implementation, though, the priority value is king and the scheduling
policy, if anything, only fine tunes the effect of that priority.

   The symbols in this section are declared by including file ‘sched.h’.

 -- Data Type: struct sched_param

     This structure describes an absolute priority.
     ‘int sched_priority’
          absolute priority value

 -- Function: int sched_setscheduler (pid_t PID, int POLICY, const
          struct sched_param *PARAM)

     Preliminary: | MT-Safe | AS-Safe | AC-Safe | *Note POSIX Safety
     Concepts::.

     This function sets both the absolute priority and the scheduling
     policy for a process.

     It assigns the absolute priority value given by PARAM and the
     scheduling policy POLICY to the process with Process ID PID, or the
     calling process if PID is zero.  If POLICY is negative,
     ‘sched_setscheduler’ keeps the existing scheduling policy.

     The following macros represent the valid values for POLICY:

     ‘SCHED_OTHER’
          Traditional Scheduling
     ‘SCHED_FIFO’
          First In First Out
     ‘SCHED_RR’
          Round Robin

     On success, the return value is ‘0’.  Otherwise, it is ‘-1’ and
     ‘ERRNO’ is set accordingly.  The ‘errno’ values specific to this
     function are:

     ‘EPERM’
             • The calling process does not have ‘CAP_SYS_NICE’
               permission and POLICY is not ‘SCHED_OTHER’ (or it’s
               negative and the existing policy is not ‘SCHED_OTHER’.

             • The calling process does not have ‘CAP_SYS_NICE’
               permission and its owner is not the target process’
               owner.  I.e., the effective uid of the calling process is
               neither the effective nor the real uid of process PID.

     ‘ESRCH’
          There is no process with pid PID and PID is not zero.

     ‘EINVAL’
             • POLICY does not identify an existing scheduling policy.

             • The absolute priority value identified by *PARAM is
               outside the valid range for the scheduling policy POLICY
               (or the existing scheduling policy if POLICY is negative)
               or PARAM is null.  ‘sched_get_priority_max’ and
               ‘sched_get_priority_min’ tell you what the valid range
               is.

             • PID is negative.

 -- Function: int sched_getscheduler (pid_t PID)

     Preliminary: | MT-Safe | AS-Safe | AC-Safe | *Note POSIX Safety
     Concepts::.

     This function returns the scheduling policy assigned to the process
     with Process ID (pid) PID, or the calling process if PID is zero.

     The return value is the scheduling policy.  See
     ‘sched_setscheduler’ for the possible values.

     If the function fails, the return value is instead ‘-1’ and ‘errno’
     is set accordingly.

     The ‘errno’ values specific to this function are:

     ‘ESRCH’
          There is no process with pid PID and it is not zero.

     ‘EINVAL’
          PID is negative.

     Note that this function is not an exact mate to
     ‘sched_setscheduler’ because while that function sets the
     scheduling policy and the absolute priority, this function gets
     only the scheduling policy.  To get the absolute priority, use
     ‘sched_getparam’.

 -- Function: int sched_setparam (pid_t PID, const struct sched_param
          *PARAM)

     Preliminary: | MT-Safe | AS-Safe | AC-Safe | *Note POSIX Safety
     Concepts::.

     This function sets a process’ absolute priority.

     It is functionally identical to ‘sched_setscheduler’ with POLICY =
     ‘-1’.

 -- Function: int sched_getparam (pid_t PID, struct sched_param *PARAM)

     Preliminary: | MT-Safe | AS-Safe | AC-Safe | *Note POSIX Safety
     Concepts::.

     This function returns a process’ absolute priority.

     PID is the Process ID (pid) of the process whose absolute priority
     you want to know.

     PARAM is a pointer to a structure in which the function stores the
     absolute priority of the process.

     On success, the return value is ‘0’.  Otherwise, it is ‘-1’ and
     ‘errno’ is set accordingly.  The ‘errno’ values specific to this
     function are:

     ‘ESRCH’
          There is no process with pid PID and it is not zero.

     ‘EINVAL’
          PID is negative.

 -- Function: int sched_get_priority_min (int POLICY)

     Preliminary: | MT-Safe | AS-Safe | AC-Safe | *Note POSIX Safety
     Concepts::.

     This function returns the lowest absolute priority value that is
     allowable for a process with scheduling policy POLICY.

     On Linux, it is 0 for SCHED_OTHER and 1 for everything else.

     On success, the return value is ‘0’.  Otherwise, it is ‘-1’ and
     ‘ERRNO’ is set accordingly.  The ‘errno’ values specific to this
     function are:

     ‘EINVAL’
          POLICY does not identify an existing scheduling policy.

 -- Function: int sched_get_priority_max (int POLICY)

     Preliminary: | MT-Safe | AS-Safe | AC-Safe | *Note POSIX Safety
     Concepts::.

     This function returns the highest absolute priority value that is
     allowable for a process that with scheduling policy POLICY.

     On Linux, it is 0 for SCHED_OTHER and 99 for everything else.

     On success, the return value is ‘0’.  Otherwise, it is ‘-1’ and
     ‘ERRNO’ is set accordingly.  The ‘errno’ values specific to this
     function are:

     ‘EINVAL’
          POLICY does not identify an existing scheduling policy.

 -- Function: int sched_rr_get_interval (pid_t PID, struct timespec
          *INTERVAL)

     Preliminary: | MT-Safe | AS-Safe | AC-Safe | *Note POSIX Safety
     Concepts::.

     This function returns the length of the quantum (time slice) used
     with the Round Robin scheduling policy, if it is used, for the
     process with Process ID PID.

     It returns the length of time as INTERVAL.

     With a Linux kernel, the round robin time slice is always 150
     microseconds, and PID need not even be a real pid.

     The return value is ‘0’ on success and in the pathological case
     that it fails, the return value is ‘-1’ and ‘errno’ is set
     accordingly.  There is nothing specific that can go wrong with this
     function, so there are no specific ‘errno’ values.

 -- Function: int sched_yield (void)

     Preliminary: | MT-Safe | AS-Safe | AC-Safe | *Note POSIX Safety
     Concepts::.

     This function voluntarily gives up the process’ claim on the CPU.

     Technically, ‘sched_yield’ causes the calling process to be made
     immediately ready to run (as opposed to running, which is what it
     was before).  This means that if it has absolute priority higher
     than 0, it gets pushed onto the tail of the queue of processes that
     share its absolute priority and are ready to run, and it will run
     again when its turn next arrives.  If its absolute priority is 0,
     it is more complicated, but still has the effect of yielding the
     CPU to other processes.

     If there are no other processes that share the calling process’
     absolute priority, this function doesn’t have any effect.

     To the extent that the containing program is oblivious to what
     other processes in the system are doing and how fast it executes,
     this function appears as a no-op.

     The return value is ‘0’ on success and in the pathological case
     that it fails, the return value is ‘-1’ and ‘errno’ is set
     accordingly.  There is nothing specific that can go wrong with this
     function, so there are no specific ‘errno’ values.

File: libc.info,  Node: Traditional Scheduling,  Next: CPU Affinity,  Prev: Basic Scheduling Functions,  Up: Priority

22.3.4 Traditional Scheduling
-----------------------------

This section is about the scheduling among processes whose absolute
priority is 0.  When the system hands out the scraps of CPU time that
are left over after the processes with higher absolute priority have
taken all they want, the scheduling described herein determines who
among the great unwashed processes gets them.

* Menu:

* Traditional Scheduling Intro::
* Traditional Scheduling Functions::

File: libc.info,  Node: Traditional Scheduling Intro,  Next: Traditional Scheduling Functions,  Up: Traditional Scheduling

22.3.4.1 Introduction To Traditional Scheduling
...............................................

Long before there was absolute priority (See *note Absolute Priority::),
Unix systems were scheduling the CPU using this system.  When POSIX came
in like the Romans and imposed absolute priorities to accommodate the
needs of realtime processing, it left the indigenous Absolute Priority
Zero processes to govern themselves by their own familiar scheduling
policy.

   Indeed, absolute priorities higher than zero are not available on
many systems today and are not typically used when they are, being
intended mainly for computers that do realtime processing.  So this
section describes the only scheduling many programmers need to be
concerned about.

   But just to be clear about the scope of this scheduling: Any time a
process with an absolute priority of 0 and a process with an absolute
priority higher than 0 are ready to run at the same time, the one with
absolute priority 0 does not run.  If it’s already running when the
higher priority ready-to-run process comes into existence, it stops
immediately.

   In addition to its absolute priority of zero, every process has
another priority, which we will refer to as "dynamic priority" because
it changes over time.  The dynamic priority is meaningless for processes
with an absolute priority higher than zero.

   The dynamic priority sometimes determines who gets the next turn on
the CPU. Sometimes it determines how long turns last.  Sometimes it
determines whether a process can kick another off the CPU.

   In Linux, the value is a combination of these things, but mostly it
just determines the length of the time slice.  The higher a process’
dynamic priority, the longer a shot it gets on the CPU when it gets one.
If it doesn’t use up its time slice before giving up the CPU to do
something like wait for I/O, it is favored for getting the CPU back when
it’s ready for it, to finish out its time slice.  Other than that,
selection of processes for new time slices is basically round robin.
But the scheduler does throw a bone to the low priority processes: A
process’ dynamic priority rises every time it is snubbed in the
scheduling process.  In Linux, even the fat kid gets to play.

   The fluctuation of a process’ dynamic priority is regulated by
another value: The “nice” value.  The nice value is an integer, usually
in the range -20 to 20, and represents an upper limit on a process’
dynamic priority.  The higher the nice number, the lower that limit.

   On a typical Linux system, for example, a process with a nice value
of 20 can get only 10 milliseconds on the CPU at a time, whereas a
process with a nice value of -20 can achieve a high enough priority to
get 400 milliseconds.

   The idea of the nice value is deferential courtesy.  In the
beginning, in the Unix garden of Eden, all processes shared equally in
the bounty of the computer system.  But not all processes really need
the same share of CPU time, so the nice value gave a courteous process
the ability to refuse its equal share of CPU time that others might
prosper.  Hence, the higher a process’ nice value, the nicer the process
is.  (Then a snake came along and offered some process a negative nice
value and the system became the crass resource allocation system we know
today.)

   Dynamic priorities tend upward and downward with an objective of
smoothing out allocation of CPU time and giving quick response time to
infrequent requests.  But they never exceed their nice limits, so on a
heavily loaded CPU, the nice value effectively determines how fast a
process runs.

   In keeping with the socialistic heritage of Unix process priority, a
process begins life with the same nice value as its parent process and
can raise it at will.  A process can also raise the nice value of any
other process owned by the same user (or effective user).  But only a
privileged process can lower its nice value.  A privileged process can
also raise or lower another process’ nice value.

   GNU C Library functions for getting and setting nice values are
described in *Note Traditional Scheduling Functions::.

File: libc.info,  Node: Traditional Scheduling Functions,  Prev: Traditional Scheduling Intro,  Up: Traditional Scheduling

22.3.4.2 Functions For Traditional Scheduling
.............................................

This section describes how you can read and set the nice value of a
process.  All these symbols are declared in ‘sys/resource.h’.

   The function and macro names are defined by POSIX, and refer to
"priority," but the functions actually have to do with nice values, as
the terms are used both in the manual and POSIX.

   The range of valid nice values depends on the kernel, but typically
it runs from ‘-20’ to ‘20’.  A lower nice value corresponds to higher
priority for the process.  These constants describe the range of
priority values:

‘PRIO_MIN’

     The lowest valid nice value.

‘PRIO_MAX’

     The highest valid nice value.

 -- Function: int getpriority (int CLASS, int ID)

     Preliminary: | MT-Safe | AS-Safe | AC-Safe | *Note POSIX Safety
     Concepts::.

     Return the nice value of a set of processes; CLASS and ID specify
     which ones (see below).  If the processes specified do not all have
     the same nice value, this returns the lowest value that any of them
     has.

     On success, the return value is ‘0’.  Otherwise, it is ‘-1’ and
     ‘errno’ is set accordingly.  The ‘errno’ values specific to this
     function are:

     ‘ESRCH’
          The combination of CLASS and ID does not match any existing
          process.

     ‘EINVAL’
          The value of CLASS is not valid.

     If the return value is ‘-1’, it could indicate failure, or it could
     be the nice value.  The only way to make certain is to set ‘errno =
     0’ before calling ‘getpriority’, then use ‘errno != 0’ afterward as
     the criterion for failure.

 -- Function: int setpriority (int CLASS, int ID, int NICEVAL)

     Preliminary: | MT-Safe | AS-Safe | AC-Safe | *Note POSIX Safety
     Concepts::.

     Set the nice value of a set of processes to NICEVAL; CLASS and ID
     specify which ones (see below).

     The return value is ‘0’ on success, and ‘-1’ on failure.  The
     following ‘errno’ error condition are possible for this function:

     ‘ESRCH’
          The combination of CLASS and ID does not match any existing
          process.

     ‘EINVAL’
          The value of CLASS is not valid.

     ‘EPERM’
          The call would set the nice value of a process which is owned
          by a different user than the calling process (i.e., the target
          process’ real or effective uid does not match the calling
          process’ effective uid) and the calling process does not have
          ‘CAP_SYS_NICE’ permission.

     ‘EACCES’
          The call would lower the process’ nice value and the process
          does not have ‘CAP_SYS_NICE’ permission.

   The arguments CLASS and ID together specify a set of processes in
which you are interested.  These are the possible values of CLASS:

‘PRIO_PROCESS’

     One particular process.  The argument ID is a process ID (pid).

‘PRIO_PGRP’

     All the processes in a particular process group.  The argument ID
     is a process group ID (pgid).

‘PRIO_USER’

     All the processes owned by a particular user (i.e., whose real uid
     indicates the user).  The argument ID is a user ID (uid).

   If the argument ID is 0, it stands for the calling process, its
process group, or its owner (real uid), according to CLASS.

 -- Function: int nice (int INCREMENT)

     Preliminary: | MT-Unsafe race:setpriority | AS-Unsafe | AC-Safe |
     *Note POSIX Safety Concepts::.

     Increment the nice value of the calling process by INCREMENT.  The
     return value is the new nice value on success, and ‘-1’ on failure.
     In the case of failure, ‘errno’ will be set to the same values as
     for ‘setpriority’.

     Here is an equivalent definition of ‘nice’:

          int
          nice (int increment)
          {
            int result, old = getpriority (PRIO_PROCESS, 0);
            result = setpriority (PRIO_PROCESS, 0, old + increment);
            if (result != -1)
                return old + increment;
            else
                return -1;
          }

File: libc.info,  Node: CPU Affinity,  Prev: Traditional Scheduling,  Up: Priority

22.3.5 Limiting execution to certain CPUs
-----------------------------------------

On a multi-processor system the operating system usually distributes the
different processes which are runnable on all available CPUs in a way
which allows the system to work most efficiently.  Which processes and
threads run can be to some extend be control with the scheduling
functionality described in the last sections.  But which CPU finally
executes which process or thread is not covered.

   There are a number of reasons why a program might want to have
control over this aspect of the system as well:

   • One thread or process is responsible for absolutely critical work
     which under no circumstances must be interrupted or hindered from
     making progress by other processes or threads using CPU resources.
     In this case the special process would be confined to a CPU which
     no other process or thread is allowed to use.

   • The access to certain resources (RAM, I/O ports) has different
     costs from different CPUs.  This is the case in NUMA (Non-Uniform
     Memory Architecture) machines.  Preferably memory should be
     accessed locally but this requirement is usually not visible to the
     scheduler.  Therefore forcing a process or thread to the CPUs which
     have local access to the most-used memory helps to significantly
     boost the performance.

   • In controlled runtimes resource allocation and book-keeping work
     (for instance garbage collection) is performance local to
     processors.  This can help to reduce locking costs if the resources
     do not have to be protected from concurrent accesses from different
     processors.

   The POSIX standard up to this date is of not much help to solve this
problem.  The Linux kernel provides a set of interfaces to allow
specifying _affinity sets_ for a process.  The scheduler will schedule
the thread or process on CPUs specified by the affinity masks.  The
interfaces which the GNU C Library define follow to some extent the
Linux kernel interface.

 -- Data Type: cpu_set_t

     This data set is a bitset where each bit represents a CPU. How the
     system’s CPUs are mapped to bits in the bitset is system dependent.
     The data type has a fixed size; in the unlikely case that the
     number of bits are not sufficient to describe the CPUs of the
     system a different interface has to be used.

     This type is a GNU extension and is defined in ‘sched.h’.

   To manipulate the bitset, to set and reset bits, a number of macros
are defined.  Some of the macros take a CPU number as a parameter.  Here
it is important to never exceed the size of the bitset.  The following
macro specifies the number of bits in the ‘cpu_set_t’ bitset.

 -- Macro: int CPU_SETSIZE

     The value of this macro is the maximum number of CPUs which can be
     handled with a ‘cpu_set_t’ object.

   The type ‘cpu_set_t’ should be considered opaque; all manipulation
should happen via the next four macros.

 -- Macro: void CPU_ZERO (cpu_set_t *SET)

     Preliminary: | MT-Safe | AS-Safe | AC-Safe | *Note POSIX Safety
     Concepts::.

     This macro initializes the CPU set SET to be the empty set.

     This macro is a GNU extension and is defined in ‘sched.h’.

 -- Macro: void CPU_SET (int CPU, cpu_set_t *SET)

     Preliminary: | MT-Safe | AS-Safe | AC-Safe | *Note POSIX Safety
     Concepts::.

     This macro adds CPU to the CPU set SET.

     The CPU parameter must not have side effects since it is evaluated
     more than once.

     This macro is a GNU extension and is defined in ‘sched.h’.

 -- Macro: void CPU_CLR (int CPU, cpu_set_t *SET)

     Preliminary: | MT-Safe | AS-Safe | AC-Safe | *Note POSIX Safety
     Concepts::.

     This macro removes CPU from the CPU set SET.

     The CPU parameter must not have side effects since it is evaluated
     more than once.

     This macro is a GNU extension and is defined in ‘sched.h’.

 -- Macro: int CPU_ISSET (int CPU, const cpu_set_t *SET)

     Preliminary: | MT-Safe | AS-Safe | AC-Safe | *Note POSIX Safety
     Concepts::.

     This macro returns a nonzero value (true) if CPU is a member of the
     CPU set SET, and zero (false) otherwise.

     The CPU parameter must not have side effects since it is evaluated
     more than once.

     This macro is a GNU extension and is defined in ‘sched.h’.

   CPU bitsets can be constructed from scratch or the currently
installed affinity mask can be retrieved from the system.

 -- Function: int sched_getaffinity (pid_t PID, size_t CPUSETSIZE,
          cpu_set_t *CPUSET)

     Preliminary: | MT-Safe | AS-Safe | AC-Safe | *Note POSIX Safety
     Concepts::.

     This function stores the CPU affinity mask for the process or
     thread with the ID PID in the CPUSETSIZE bytes long bitmap pointed
     to by CPUSET.  If successful, the function always initializes all
     bits in the ‘cpu_set_t’ object and returns zero.

     If PID does not correspond to a process or thread on the system the
     or the function fails for some other reason, it returns ‘-1’ and
     ‘errno’ is set to represent the error condition.

     ‘ESRCH’
          No process or thread with the given ID found.

     ‘EFAULT’
          The pointer CPUSET does not point to a valid object.

     This function is a GNU extension and is declared in ‘sched.h’.

   Note that it is not portably possible to use this information to
retrieve the information for different POSIX threads.  A separate
interface must be provided for that.

 -- Function: int sched_setaffinity (pid_t PID, size_t CPUSETSIZE, const
          cpu_set_t *CPUSET)

     Preliminary: | MT-Safe | AS-Safe | AC-Safe | *Note POSIX Safety
     Concepts::.

     This function installs the CPUSETSIZE bytes long affinity mask
     pointed to by CPUSET for the process or thread with the ID PID.  If
     successful the function returns zero and the scheduler will in the
     future take the affinity information into account.

     If the function fails it will return ‘-1’ and ‘errno’ is set to the
     error code:

     ‘ESRCH’
          No process or thread with the given ID found.

     ‘EFAULT’
          The pointer CPUSET does not point to a valid object.

     ‘EINVAL’
          The bitset is not valid.  This might mean that the affinity
          set might not leave a processor for the process or thread to
          run on.

     This function is a GNU extension and is declared in ‘sched.h’.

 -- Function: int getcpu (unsigned int *cpu, unsigned int *node)

     Preliminary: | MT-Safe | AS-Safe | AC-Safe | *Note POSIX Safety
     Concepts::.

     The ‘getcpu’ function identifies the processor and node on which
     the calling thread or process is currently running and writes them
     into the integers pointed to by the CPU and NODE arguments.  The
     processor is a unique nonnegative integer identifying a CPU. The
     node is a unique nonnegative integer identifying a NUMA node.  When
     either CPU or NODE is ‘NULL’, nothing is written to the respective
     pointer.

     The return value is ‘0’ on success and ‘-1’ on failure.  The
     following ‘errno’ error condition is defined for this function:

     ‘ENOSYS’
          The operating system does not support this function.

     This function is Linux-specific and is declared in ‘sched.h’.

File: libc.info,  Node: Memory Resources,  Next: Processor Resources,  Prev: Priority,  Up: Resource Usage And Limitation

