24.1 Basic Concepts of Signals
==============================

This section explains basic concepts of how signals are generated, what
happens after a signal is delivered, and how programs can handle
signals.

* Menu:

* Kinds of Signals::            Some examples of what can cause a signal.
* Signal Generation::           Concepts of why and how signals occur.
* Delivery of Signal::          Concepts of what a signal does to the
                                 process.

File: libc.info,  Node: Kinds of Signals,  Next: Signal Generation,  Up: Concepts of Signals

24.1.1 Some Kinds of Signals
----------------------------

A signal reports the occurrence of an exceptional event.  These are some
of the events that can cause (or “generate”, or “raise”) a signal:

   • A program error such as dividing by zero or issuing an address
     outside the valid range.

   • A user request to interrupt or terminate the program.  Most
     environments are set up to let a user suspend the program by typing
     ‘C-z’, or terminate it with ‘C-c’.  Whatever key sequence is used,
     the operating system sends the proper signal to interrupt the
     process.

   • The termination of a child process.

   • Expiration of a timer or alarm.

   • A call to ‘kill’ or ‘raise’ by the same process.

   • A call to ‘kill’ from another process.  Signals are a limited but
     useful form of interprocess communication.

   • An attempt to perform an I/O operation that cannot be done.
     Examples are reading from a pipe that has no writer (*note Pipes
     and FIFOs::), and reading or writing to a terminal in certain
     situations (*note Job Control::).

   Each of these kinds of events (excepting explicit calls to ‘kill’ and
‘raise’) generates its own particular kind of signal.  The various kinds
of signals are listed and described in detail in *note Standard
Signals::.

File: libc.info,  Node: Signal Generation,  Next: Delivery of Signal,  Prev: Kinds of Signals,  Up: Concepts of Signals

24.1.2 Concepts of Signal Generation
------------------------------------

In general, the events that generate signals fall into three major
categories: errors, external events, and explicit requests.

   An error means that a program has done something invalid and cannot
continue execution.  But not all kinds of errors generate signals—in
fact, most do not.  For example, opening a nonexistent file is an error,
but it does not raise a signal; instead, ‘open’ returns ‘-1’.  In
general, errors that are necessarily associated with certain library
functions are reported by returning a value that indicates an error.
The errors which raise signals are those which can happen anywhere in
the program, not just in library calls.  These include division by zero
and invalid memory addresses.

   An external event generally has to do with I/O or other processes.
These include the arrival of input, the expiration of a timer, and the
termination of a child process.

   An explicit request means the use of a library function such as
‘kill’ whose purpose is specifically to generate a signal.

   Signals may be generated “synchronously” or “asynchronously”.  A
synchronous signal pertains to a specific action in the program, and is
delivered (unless blocked) during that action.  Most errors generate
signals synchronously, and so do explicit requests by a process to
generate a signal for that same process.  On some machines, certain
kinds of hardware errors (usually floating-point exceptions) are not
reported completely synchronously, but may arrive a few instructions
later.

   Asynchronous signals are generated by events outside the control of
the process that receives them.  These signals arrive at unpredictable
times during execution.  External events generate signals
asynchronously, and so do explicit requests that apply to some other
process.

   A given type of signal is either typically synchronous or typically
asynchronous.  For example, signals for errors are typically synchronous
because errors generate signals synchronously.  But any type of signal
can be generated synchronously or asynchronously with an explicit
request.

File: libc.info,  Node: Delivery of Signal,  Prev: Signal Generation,  Up: Concepts of Signals

24.1.3 How Signals Are Delivered
--------------------------------

When a signal is generated, it becomes “pending”.  Normally it remains
pending for just a short period of time and then is “delivered” to the
process that was signaled.  However, if that kind of signal is currently
“blocked”, it may remain pending indefinitely—until signals of that kind
are “unblocked”.  Once unblocked, it will be delivered immediately.
*Note Blocking Signals::.

   When the signal is delivered, whether right away or after a long
delay, the “specified action” for that signal is taken.  For certain
signals, such as ‘SIGKILL’ and ‘SIGSTOP’, the action is fixed, but for
most signals, the program has a choice: ignore the signal, specify a
“handler function”, or accept the “default action” for that kind of
signal.  The program specifies its choice using functions such as
‘signal’ or ‘sigaction’ (*note Signal Actions::).  We sometimes say that
a handler “catches” the signal.  While the handler is running, that
particular signal is normally blocked.

   If the specified action for a kind of signal is to ignore it, then
any such signal which is generated is discarded immediately.  This
happens even if the signal is also blocked at the time.  A signal
discarded in this way will never be delivered, not even if the program
subsequently specifies a different action for that kind of signal and
then unblocks it.

   If a signal arrives which the program has neither handled nor
ignored, its “default action” takes place.  Each kind of signal has its
own default action, documented below (*note Standard Signals::).  For
most kinds of signals, the default action is to terminate the process.
For certain kinds of signals that represent “harmless” events, the
default action is to do nothing.

   When a signal terminates a process, its parent process can determine
the cause of termination by examining the termination status code
reported by the ‘wait’ or ‘waitpid’ functions.  (This is discussed in
more detail in *note Process Completion::.)  The information it can get
includes the fact that termination was due to a signal and the kind of
signal involved.  If a program you run from a shell is terminated by a
signal, the shell typically prints some kind of error message.

   The signals that normally represent program errors have a special
property: when one of these signals terminates the process, it also
writes a “core dump file” which records the state of the process at the
time of termination.  You can examine the core dump with a debugger to
investigate what caused the error.

   If you raise a “program error” signal by explicit request, and this
terminates the process, it makes a core dump file just as if the signal
had been due directly to an error.

File: libc.info,  Node: Standard Signals,  Next: Signal Actions,  Prev: Concepts of Signals,  Up: Signal Handling

