24.2 Standard Signals
=====================

This section lists the names for various standard kinds of signals and
describes what kind of event they mean.  Each signal name is a macro
which stands for a positive integer—the “signal number” for that kind of
signal.  Your programs should never make assumptions about the numeric
code for a particular kind of signal, but rather refer to them always by
the names defined here.  This is because the number for a given kind of
signal can vary from system to system, but the meanings of the names are
standardized and fairly uniform.

   The signal names are defined in the header file ‘signal.h’.

 -- Macro: int NSIG

     The value of this symbolic constant is the total number of signals
     defined.  Since the signal numbers are allocated consecutively,
     ‘NSIG’ is also one greater than the largest defined signal number.

* Menu:

* Program Error Signals::       Used to report serious program errors.
* Termination Signals::         Used to interrupt and/or terminate the
                                 program.
* Alarm Signals::               Used to indicate expiration of timers.
* Asynchronous I/O Signals::    Used to indicate input is available.
* Job Control Signals::         Signals used to support job control.
* Operation Error Signals::     Used to report operational system errors.
* Miscellaneous Signals::       Miscellaneous Signals.
* Signal Messages::             Printing a message describing a signal.

File: libc.info,  Node: Program Error Signals,  Next: Termination Signals,  Up: Standard Signals

24.2.1 Program Error Signals
----------------------------

The following signals are generated when a serious program error is
detected by the operating system or the computer itself.  In general,
all of these signals are indications that your program is seriously
broken in some way, and there’s usually no way to continue the
computation which encountered the error.

   Some programs handle program error signals in order to tidy up before
terminating; for example, programs that turn off echoing of terminal
input should handle program error signals in order to turn echoing back
on.  The handler should end by specifying the default action for the
signal that happened and then reraising it; this will cause the program
to terminate with that signal, as if it had not had a handler.  (*Note
Termination in Handler::.)

   Termination is the sensible ultimate outcome from a program error in
most programs.  However, programming systems such as Lisp that can load
compiled user programs might need to keep executing even if a user
program incurs an error.  These programs have handlers which use
‘longjmp’ to return control to the command level.

   The default action for all of these signals is to cause the process
to terminate.  If you block or ignore these signals or establish
handlers for them that return normally, your program will probably break
horribly when such signals happen, unless they are generated by ‘raise’
or ‘kill’ instead of a real error.

   When one of these program error signals terminates a process, it also
writes a “core dump file” which records the state of the process at the
time of termination.  The core dump file is named ‘core’ and is written
in whichever directory is current in the process at the time.  (On
GNU/Hurd systems, you can specify the file name for core dumps with the
environment variable ‘COREFILE’.)  The purpose of core dump files is so
that you can examine them with a debugger to investigate what caused the
error.

 -- Macro: int SIGFPE

     The ‘SIGFPE’ signal reports a fatal arithmetic error.  Although the
     name is derived from “floating-point exception”, this signal
     actually covers all arithmetic errors, including division by zero
     and overflow.  If a program stores integer data in a location which
     is then used in a floating-point operation, this often causes an
     “invalid operation” exception, because the processor cannot
     recognize the data as a floating-point number.

     Actual floating-point exceptions are a complicated subject because
     there are many types of exceptions with subtly different meanings,
     and the ‘SIGFPE’ signal doesn’t distinguish between them.  The
     ‘IEEE Standard for Binary Floating-Point Arithmetic (ANSI/IEEE Std
     754-1985 and ANSI/IEEE Std 854-1987)’ defines various
     floating-point exceptions and requires conforming computer systems
     to report their occurrences.  However, this standard does not
     specify how the exceptions are reported, or what kinds of handling
     and control the operating system can offer to the programmer.

   BSD systems provide the ‘SIGFPE’ handler with an extra argument that
distinguishes various causes of the exception.  In order to access this
argument, you must define the handler to accept two arguments, which
means you must cast it to a one-argument function type in order to
establish the handler.  The GNU C Library does provide this extra
argument, but the value is meaningful only on operating systems that
provide the information (BSD systems and GNU systems).

‘FPE_INTOVF_TRAP’

     Integer overflow (impossible in a C program unless you enable
     overflow trapping in a hardware-specific fashion).
‘FPE_INTDIV_TRAP’

     Integer division by zero.
‘FPE_SUBRNG_TRAP’

     Subscript-range (something that C programs never check for).
‘FPE_FLTOVF_TRAP’

     Floating overflow trap.
‘FPE_FLTDIV_TRAP’

     Floating/decimal division by zero.
‘FPE_FLTUND_TRAP’

     Floating underflow trap.  (Trapping on floating underflow is not
     normally enabled.)
‘FPE_DECOVF_TRAP’

     Decimal overflow trap.  (Only a few machines have decimal
     arithmetic and C never uses it.)

 -- Macro: int SIGILL

     The name of this signal is derived from “illegal instruction”; it
     usually means your program is trying to execute garbage or a
     privileged instruction.  Since the C compiler generates only valid
     instructions, ‘SIGILL’ typically indicates that the executable file
     is corrupted, or that you are trying to execute data.  Some common
     ways of getting into the latter situation are by passing an invalid
     object where a pointer to a function was expected, or by writing
     past the end of an automatic array (or similar problems with
     pointers to automatic variables) and corrupting other data on the
     stack such as the return address of a stack frame.

     ‘SIGILL’ can also be generated when the stack overflows, or when
     the system has trouble running the handler for a signal.

 -- Macro: int SIGSEGV

     This signal is generated when a program tries to read or write
     outside the memory that is allocated for it, or to write memory
     that can only be read.  (Actually, the signals only occur when the
     program goes far enough outside to be detected by the system’s
     memory protection mechanism.)  The name is an abbreviation for
     “segmentation violation”.

     Common ways of getting a ‘SIGSEGV’ condition include dereferencing
     a null or uninitialized pointer, or when you use a pointer to step
     through an array, but fail to check for the end of the array.  It
     varies among systems whether dereferencing a null pointer generates
     ‘SIGSEGV’ or ‘SIGBUS’.

 -- Macro: int SIGBUS

     This signal is generated when an invalid pointer is dereferenced.
     Like ‘SIGSEGV’, this signal is typically the result of
     dereferencing an uninitialized pointer.  The difference between the
     two is that ‘SIGSEGV’ indicates an invalid access to valid memory,
     while ‘SIGBUS’ indicates an access to an invalid address.  In
     particular, ‘SIGBUS’ signals often result from dereferencing a
     misaligned pointer, such as referring to a four-word integer at an
     address not divisible by four.  (Each kind of computer has its own
     requirements for address alignment.)

     The name of this signal is an abbreviation for “bus error”.

 -- Macro: int SIGABRT

     This signal indicates an error detected by the program itself and
     reported by calling ‘abort’.  *Note Aborting a Program::.

 -- Macro: int SIGIOT

     Generated by the PDP-11 “iot” instruction.  On most machines, this
     is just another name for ‘SIGABRT’.

 -- Macro: int SIGTRAP

     Generated by the machine’s breakpoint instruction, and possibly
     other trap instructions.  This signal is used by debuggers.  Your
     program will probably only see ‘SIGTRAP’ if it is somehow executing
     bad instructions.

 -- Macro: int SIGEMT

     Emulator trap; this results from certain unimplemented instructions
     which might be emulated in software, or the operating system’s
     failure to properly emulate them.

 -- Macro: int SIGSYS

     Bad system call; that is to say, the instruction to trap to the
     operating system was executed, but the code number for the system
     call to perform was invalid.

File: libc.info,  Node: Termination Signals,  Next: Alarm Signals,  Prev: Program Error Signals,  Up: Standard Signals

24.2.2 Termination Signals
--------------------------

These signals are all used to tell a process to terminate, in one way or
another.  They have different names because they’re used for slightly
different purposes, and programs might want to handle them differently.

   The reason for handling these signals is usually so your program can
tidy up as appropriate before actually terminating.  For example, you
might want to save state information, delete temporary files, or restore
the previous terminal modes.  Such a handler should end by specifying
the default action for the signal that happened and then reraising it;
this will cause the program to terminate with that signal, as if it had
not had a handler.  (*Note Termination in Handler::.)

   The (obvious) default action for all of these signals is to cause the
process to terminate.

 -- Macro: int SIGTERM

     The ‘SIGTERM’ signal is a generic signal used to cause program
     termination.  Unlike ‘SIGKILL’, this signal can be blocked,
     handled, and ignored.  It is the normal way to politely ask a
     program to terminate.

     The shell command ‘kill’ generates ‘SIGTERM’ by default.

 -- Macro: int SIGINT

     The ‘SIGINT’ (“program interrupt”) signal is sent when the user
     types the INTR character (normally ‘C-c’).  *Note Special
     Characters::, for information about terminal driver support for
     ‘C-c’.

 -- Macro: int SIGQUIT

     The ‘SIGQUIT’ signal is similar to ‘SIGINT’, except that it’s
     controlled by a different key—the QUIT character, usually ‘C-\’—and
     produces a core dump when it terminates the process, just like a
     program error signal.  You can think of this as a program error
     condition “detected” by the user.

     *Note Program Error Signals::, for information about core dumps.
     *Note Special Characters::, for information about terminal driver
     support.

     Certain kinds of cleanups are best omitted in handling ‘SIGQUIT’.
     For example, if the program creates temporary files, it should
     handle the other termination requests by deleting the temporary
     files.  But it is better for ‘SIGQUIT’ not to delete them, so that
     the user can examine them in conjunction with the core dump.

 -- Macro: int SIGKILL

     The ‘SIGKILL’ signal is used to cause immediate program
     termination.  It cannot be handled or ignored, and is therefore
     always fatal.  It is also not possible to block this signal.

     This signal is usually generated only by explicit request.  Since
     it cannot be handled, you should generate it only as a last resort,
     after first trying a less drastic method such as ‘C-c’ or
     ‘SIGTERM’.  If a process does not respond to any other termination
     signals, sending it a ‘SIGKILL’ signal will almost always cause it
     to go away.

     In fact, if ‘SIGKILL’ fails to terminate a process, that by itself
     constitutes an operating system bug which you should report.

     The system will generate ‘SIGKILL’ for a process itself under some
     unusual conditions where the program cannot possibly continue to
     run (even to run a signal handler).

 -- Macro: int SIGHUP

     The ‘SIGHUP’ (“hang-up”) signal is used to report that the user’s
     terminal is disconnected, perhaps because a network or telephone
     connection was broken.  For more information about this, see *note
     Control Modes::.

     This signal is also used to report the termination of the
     controlling process on a terminal to jobs associated with that
     session; this termination effectively disconnects all processes in
     the session from the controlling terminal.  For more information,
     see *note Termination Internals::.

File: libc.info,  Node: Alarm Signals,  Next: Asynchronous I/O Signals,  Prev: Termination Signals,  Up: Standard Signals

24.2.3 Alarm Signals
--------------------

These signals are used to indicate the expiration of timers.  *Note
Setting an Alarm::, for information about functions that cause these
signals to be sent.

   The default behavior for these signals is to cause program
termination.  This default is rarely useful, but no other default would
be useful; most of the ways of using these signals would require handler
functions in any case.

 -- Macro: int SIGALRM

     This signal typically indicates expiration of a timer that measures
     real or clock time.  It is used by the ‘alarm’ function, for
     example.

 -- Macro: int SIGVTALRM

     This signal typically indicates expiration of a timer that measures
     CPU time used by the current process.  The name is an abbreviation
     for “virtual time alarm”.

 -- Macro: int SIGPROF

     This signal typically indicates expiration of a timer that measures
     both CPU time used by the current process, and CPU time expended on
     behalf of the process by the system.  Such a timer is used to
     implement code profiling facilities, hence the name of this signal.

File: libc.info,  Node: Asynchronous I/O Signals,  Next: Job Control Signals,  Prev: Alarm Signals,  Up: Standard Signals

24.2.4 Asynchronous I/O Signals
-------------------------------

The signals listed in this section are used in conjunction with
asynchronous I/O facilities.  You have to take explicit action by
calling ‘fcntl’ to enable a particular file descriptor to generate these
signals (*note Interrupt Input::).  The default action for these signals
is to ignore them.

 -- Macro: int SIGIO

     This signal is sent when a file descriptor is ready to perform
     input or output.

     On most operating systems, terminals and sockets are the only kinds
     of files that can generate ‘SIGIO’; other kinds, including ordinary
     files, never generate ‘SIGIO’ even if you ask them to.

     On GNU systems ‘SIGIO’ will always be generated properly if you
     successfully set asynchronous mode with ‘fcntl’.

 -- Macro: int SIGURG

     This signal is sent when “urgent” or out-of-band data arrives on a
     socket.  *Note Out-of-Band Data::.

 -- Macro: int SIGPOLL

     This is a System V signal name, more or less similar to ‘SIGIO’.
     It is defined only for compatibility.

File: libc.info,  Node: Job Control Signals,  Next: Operation Error Signals,  Prev: Asynchronous I/O Signals,  Up: Standard Signals

24.2.5 Job Control Signals
--------------------------

These signals are used to support job control.  If your system doesn’t
support job control, then these macros are defined but the signals
themselves can’t be raised or handled.

   You should generally leave these signals alone unless you really
understand how job control works.  *Note Job Control::.

 -- Macro: int SIGCHLD

     This signal is sent to a parent process whenever one of its child
     processes terminates or stops.

     The default action for this signal is to ignore it.  If you
     establish a handler for this signal while there are child processes
     that have terminated but not reported their status via ‘wait’ or
     ‘waitpid’ (*note Process Completion::), whether your new handler
     applies to those processes or not depends on the particular
     operating system.

 -- Macro: int SIGCLD

     This is an obsolete name for ‘SIGCHLD’.

 -- Macro: int SIGCONT

     You can send a ‘SIGCONT’ signal to a process to make it continue.
     This signal is special—it always makes the process continue if it
     is stopped, before the signal is delivered.  The default behavior
     is to do nothing else.  You cannot block this signal.  You can set
     a handler, but ‘SIGCONT’ always makes the process continue
     regardless.

     Most programs have no reason to handle ‘SIGCONT’; they simply
     resume execution without realizing they were ever stopped.  You can
     use a handler for ‘SIGCONT’ to make a program do something special
     when it is stopped and continued—for example, to reprint a prompt
     when it is suspended while waiting for input.

 -- Macro: int SIGSTOP

     The ‘SIGSTOP’ signal stops the process.  It cannot be handled,
     ignored, or blocked.

 -- Macro: int SIGTSTP

     The ‘SIGTSTP’ signal is an interactive stop signal.  Unlike
     ‘SIGSTOP’, this signal can be handled and ignored.

     Your program should handle this signal if you have a special need
     to leave files or system tables in a secure state when a process is
     stopped.  For example, programs that turn off echoing should handle
     ‘SIGTSTP’ so they can turn echoing back on before stopping.

     This signal is generated when the user types the SUSP character
     (normally ‘C-z’).  For more information about terminal driver
     support, see *note Special Characters::.

 -- Macro: int SIGTTIN

     A process cannot read from the user’s terminal while it is running
     as a background job.  When any process in a background job tries to
     read from the terminal, all of the processes in the job are sent a
     ‘SIGTTIN’ signal.  The default action for this signal is to stop
     the process.  For more information about how this interacts with
     the terminal driver, see *note Access to the Terminal::.

 -- Macro: int SIGTTOU

     This is similar to ‘SIGTTIN’, but is generated when a process in a
     background job attempts to write to the terminal or set its modes.
     Again, the default action is to stop the process.  ‘SIGTTOU’ is
     only generated for an attempt to write to the terminal if the
     ‘TOSTOP’ output mode is set; *note Output Modes::.

   While a process is stopped, no more signals can be delivered to it
until it is continued, except ‘SIGKILL’ signals and (obviously)
‘SIGCONT’ signals.  The signals are marked as pending, but not delivered
until the process is continued.  The ‘SIGKILL’ signal always causes
termination of the process and can’t be blocked, handled or ignored.
You can ignore ‘SIGCONT’, but it always causes the process to be
continued anyway if it is stopped.  Sending a ‘SIGCONT’ signal to a
process causes any pending stop signals for that process to be
discarded.  Likewise, any pending ‘SIGCONT’ signals for a process are
discarded when it receives a stop signal.

   When a process in an orphaned process group (*note Orphaned Process
Groups::) receives a ‘SIGTSTP’, ‘SIGTTIN’, or ‘SIGTTOU’ signal and does
not handle it, the process does not stop.  Stopping the process would
probably not be very useful, since there is no shell program that will
notice it stop and allow the user to continue it.  What happens instead
depends on the operating system you are using.  Some systems may do
nothing; others may deliver another signal instead, such as ‘SIGKILL’ or
‘SIGHUP’.  On GNU/Hurd systems, the process dies with ‘SIGKILL’; this
avoids the problem of many stopped, orphaned processes lying around the
system.

File: libc.info,  Node: Operation Error Signals,  Next: Miscellaneous Signals,  Prev: Job Control Signals,  Up: Standard Signals

24.2.6 Operation Error Signals
------------------------------

These signals are used to report various errors generated by an
operation done by the program.  They do not necessarily indicate a
programming error in the program, but an error that prevents an
operating system call from completing.  The default action for all of
them is to cause the process to terminate.

 -- Macro: int SIGPIPE

     Broken pipe.  If you use pipes or FIFOs, you have to design your
     application so that one process opens the pipe for reading before
     another starts writing.  If the reading process never starts, or
     terminates unexpectedly, writing to the pipe or FIFO raises a
     ‘SIGPIPE’ signal.  If ‘SIGPIPE’ is blocked, handled or ignored, the
     offending call fails with ‘EPIPE’ instead.

     Pipes and FIFO special files are discussed in more detail in *note
     Pipes and FIFOs::.

     Another cause of ‘SIGPIPE’ is when you try to output to a socket
     that isn’t connected.  *Note Sending Data::.

 -- Macro: int SIGLOST

     Resource lost.  This signal is generated when you have an advisory
     lock on an NFS file, and the NFS server reboots and forgets about
     your lock.

     On GNU/Hurd systems, ‘SIGLOST’ is generated when any server program
     dies unexpectedly.  It is usually fine to ignore the signal;
     whatever call was made to the server that died just returns an
     error.

 -- Macro: int SIGXCPU

     CPU time limit exceeded.  This signal is generated when the process
     exceeds its soft resource limit on CPU time.  *Note Limits on
     Resources::.

 -- Macro: int SIGXFSZ

     File size limit exceeded.  This signal is generated when the
     process attempts to extend a file so it exceeds the process’s soft
     resource limit on file size.  *Note Limits on Resources::.

File: libc.info,  Node: Miscellaneous Signals,  Next: Signal Messages,  Prev: Operation Error Signals,  Up: Standard Signals

24.2.7 Miscellaneous Signals
----------------------------

These signals are used for various other purposes.  In general, they
will not affect your program unless it explicitly uses them for
something.

 -- Macro: int SIGUSR1
 -- Macro: int SIGUSR2

     The ‘SIGUSR1’ and ‘SIGUSR2’ signals are set aside for you to use
     any way you want.  They’re useful for simple interprocess
     communication, if you write a signal handler for them in the
     program that receives the signal.

     There is an example showing the use of ‘SIGUSR1’ and ‘SIGUSR2’ in
     *note Signaling Another Process::.

     The default action is to terminate the process.

 -- Macro: int SIGWINCH

     Window size change.  This is generated on some systems (including
     GNU) when the terminal driver’s record of the number of rows and
     columns on the screen is changed.  The default action is to ignore
     it.

     If a program does full-screen display, it should handle ‘SIGWINCH’.
     When the signal arrives, it should fetch the new screen size and
     reformat its display accordingly.

 -- Macro: int SIGINFO

     Information request.  On 4.4 BSD and GNU/Hurd systems, this signal
     is sent to all the processes in the foreground process group of the
     controlling terminal when the user types the STATUS character in
     canonical mode; *note Signal Characters::.

     If the process is the leader of the process group, the default
     action is to print some status information about the system and
     what the process is doing.  Otherwise the default is to do nothing.

File: libc.info,  Node: Signal Messages,  Prev: Miscellaneous Signals,  Up: Standard Signals

24.2.8 Signal Messages
----------------------

We mentioned above that the shell prints a message describing the signal
that terminated a child process.  The clean way to print a message
describing a signal is to use the functions ‘strsignal’ and ‘psignal’.
These functions use a signal number to specify which kind of signal to
describe.  The signal number may come from the termination status of a
child process (*note Process Completion::) or it may come from a signal
handler in the same process.

 -- Function: char * strsignal (int SIGNUM)

     Preliminary: | MT-Unsafe race:strsignal locale | AS-Unsafe init
     i18n corrupt heap | AC-Unsafe init corrupt mem | *Note POSIX Safety
     Concepts::.

     This function returns a pointer to a statically-allocated string
     containing a message describing the signal SIGNUM.  You should not
     modify the contents of this string; and, since it can be rewritten
     on subsequent calls, you should save a copy of it if you need to
     reference it later.

     This function is a GNU extension, declared in the header file
     ‘string.h’.

 -- Function: void psignal (int SIGNUM, const char *MESSAGE)

     Preliminary: | MT-Safe locale | AS-Unsafe corrupt i18n heap |
     AC-Unsafe lock corrupt mem | *Note POSIX Safety Concepts::.

     This function prints a message describing the signal SIGNUM to the
     standard error output stream ‘stderr’; see *note Standard
     Streams::.

     If you call ‘psignal’ with a MESSAGE that is either a null pointer
     or an empty string, ‘psignal’ just prints the message corresponding
     to SIGNUM, adding a trailing newline.

     If you supply a non-null MESSAGE argument, then ‘psignal’ prefixes
     its output with this string.  It adds a colon and a space character
     to separate the MESSAGE from the string corresponding to SIGNUM.

     This function is a BSD feature, declared in the header file
     ‘signal.h’.

   There is also an array ‘sys_siglist’ which contains the messages for
the various signal codes.  This array exists on BSD systems, unlike
‘strsignal’.

File: libc.info,  Node: Signal Actions,  Next: Defining Handlers,  Prev: Standard Signals,  Up: Signal Handling

