29.4 Extending NSS
==================

One of the advantages of NSS mentioned above is that it can be extended
quite easily.  There are two ways in which the extension can happen:
adding another database or adding another service.  The former is
normally done only by the C library developers.  It is here only
important to remember that adding another database is independent from
adding another service because a service need not support all databases
or lookup functions.

   A designer/implementer of a new service is therefore free to choose
the databases s/he is interested in and leave the rest for later (or
completely aside).

* Menu:

* Adding another Service to NSS::  What is to do to add a new service.
* NSS Module Function Internals::  Guidelines for writing new NSS
                                        service functions.

File: libc.info,  Node: Adding another Service to NSS,  Next: NSS Module Function Internals,  Prev: Extending NSS,  Up: Extending NSS

29.4.1 Adding another Service to NSS
------------------------------------

The sources for a new service need not (and should not) be part of the
GNU C Library itself.  The developer retains complete control over the
sources and its development.  The links between the C library and the
new service module consists solely of the interface functions.

   Each module is designed following a specific interface specification.
For now the version is 2 (the interface in version 1 was not adequate)
and this manifests in the version number of the shared library object of
the NSS modules: they have the extension ‘.2’.  If the interface changes
again in an incompatible way, this number will be increased.  Modules
using the old interface will still be usable.

   Developers of a new service will have to make sure that their module
is created using the correct interface number.  This means the file
itself must have the correct name and on ELF systems the “soname”
(Shared Object Name) must also have this number.  Building a module from
a bunch of object files on an ELF system using GNU CC could be done like
this:

     gcc -shared -o libnss_NAME.so.2 -Wl,-soname,libnss_NAME.so.2 OBJECTS

*note Options for Linking: (gcc)Link Options, to learn more about this
command line.

   To use the new module the library must be able to find it.  This can
be achieved by using options for the dynamic linker so that it will
search the directory where the binary is placed.  For an ELF system this
could be done by adding the wanted directory to the value of
‘LD_LIBRARY_PATH’.

   But this is not always possible since some programs (those which run
under IDs which do not belong to the user) ignore this variable.
Therefore the stable version of the module should be placed into a
directory which is searched by the dynamic linker.  Normally this should
be the directory ‘$prefix/lib’, where ‘$prefix’ corresponds to the value
given to configure using the ‘--prefix’ option.  But be careful: this
should only be done if it is clear the module does not cause any harm.
System administrators should be careful.

File: libc.info,  Node: NSS Module Function Internals,  Prev: Adding another Service to NSS,  Up: Extending NSS

29.4.2 Internals of the NSS Module Functions
--------------------------------------------

Until now we only provided the syntactic interface for the functions in
the NSS module.  In fact there is not much more we can say since the
implementation obviously is different for each function.  But a few
general rules must be followed by all functions.

   In fact there are four kinds of different functions which may appear
in the interface.  All derive from the traditional ones for system
databases.  DB in the following table is normally an abbreviation for
the database (e.g., it is ‘pw’ for the user database).

‘enum nss_status _nss_DATABASE_setDBent (void)’
     This function prepares the service for following operations.  For a
     simple file based lookup this means files could be opened, for
     other services this function simply is a noop.

     One special case for this function is that it takes an additional
     argument for some DATABASEs (i.e., the interface is ‘int setDBent
     (int)’).  *note Host Names::, which describes the ‘sethostent’
     function.

     The return value should be NSS_STATUS_SUCCESS or according to the
     table above in case of an error (*note NSS Modules Interface::).

‘enum nss_status _nss_DATABASE_endDBent (void)’
     This function simply closes all files which are still open or
     removes buffer caches.  If there are no files or buffers to remove
     this is again a simple noop.

     There normally is no return value other than NSS_STATUS_SUCCESS.

‘enum nss_status _nss_DATABASE_getDBent_r (STRUCTURE *result, char *buffer, size_t buflen, int *errnop)’
     Since this function will be called several times in a row to
     retrieve one entry after the other it must keep some kind of state.
     But this also means the functions are not really reentrant.  They
     are reentrant only in that simultaneous calls to this function will
     not try to write the retrieved data in the same place (as it would
     be the case for the non-reentrant functions); instead, it writes to
     the structure pointed to by the RESULT parameter.  But the calls
     share a common state and in the case of a file access this means
     they return neighboring entries in the file.

     The buffer of length BUFLEN pointed to by BUFFER can be used for
     storing some additional data for the result.  It is _not_
     guaranteed that the same buffer will be passed for the next call of
     this function.  Therefore one must not misuse this buffer to save
     some state information from one call to another.

     Before the function returns with a failure code, the implementation
     should store the value of the local ‘errno’ variable in the
     variable pointed to be ERRNOP.  This is important to guarantee the
     module working in statically linked programs.  The stored value
     must not be zero.

     As explained above this function could also have an additional last
     argument.  This depends on the database used; it happens only for
     ‘host’ and ‘networks’.

     The function shall return ‘NSS_STATUS_SUCCESS’ as long as there are
     more entries.  When the last entry was read it should return
     ‘NSS_STATUS_NOTFOUND’.  When the buffer given as an argument is too
     small for the data to be returned ‘NSS_STATUS_TRYAGAIN’ should be
     returned.  When the service was not formerly initialized by a call
     to ‘_nss_DATABASE_setDBent’ all return values allowed for this
     function can also be returned here.

‘enum nss_status _nss_DATABASE_getDBbyXX_r (PARAMS, STRUCTURE *result, char *buffer, size_t buflen, int *errnop)’
     This function shall return the entry from the database which is
     addressed by the PARAMS.  The type and number of these arguments
     vary.  It must be individually determined by looking to the
     user-level interface functions.  All arguments given to the
     non-reentrant version are here described by PARAMS.

     The result must be stored in the structure pointed to by RESULT.
     If there are additional data to return (say strings, where the
     RESULT structure only contains pointers) the function must use the
     BUFFER of length BUFLEN.  There must not be any references to
     non-constant global data.

     The implementation of this function should honor the STAYOPEN flag
     set by the ‘setDBent’ function whenever this makes sense.

     Before the function returns, the implementation should store the
     value of the local ‘errno’ variable in the variable pointed to by
     ERRNOP.  This is important to guarantee the module works in
     statically linked programs.

     Again, this function takes an additional last argument for the
     ‘host’ and ‘networks’ database.

     The return value should as always follow the rules given above
     (*note NSS Modules Interface::).

File: libc.info,  Node: Users and Groups,  Next: System Management,  Prev: Name Service Switch,  Up: Top

