D.1 Adding New Functions
========================

The process of building the library is driven by the makefiles, which
make heavy use of special features of GNU ‘make’.  The makefiles are
very complex, and you probably don’t want to try to understand them.
But what they do is fairly straightforward, and only requires that you
define a few variables in the right places.

   The library sources are divided into subdirectories, grouped by
topic.

   The ‘string’ subdirectory has all the string-manipulation functions,
‘math’ has all the mathematical functions, etc.

   Each subdirectory contains a simple makefile, called ‘Makefile’,
which defines a few ‘make’ variables and then includes the global
makefile ‘Rules’ with a line like:

     include ../Rules

The basic variables that a subdirectory makefile defines are:

‘subdir’
     The name of the subdirectory, for example ‘stdio’.  This variable
     *must* be defined.

‘headers’
     The names of the header files in this section of the library, such
     as ‘stdio.h’.

‘routines’
‘aux’
     The names of the modules (source files) in this section of the
     library.  These should be simple names, such as ‘strlen’ (rather
     than complete file names, such as ‘strlen.c’).  Use ‘routines’ for
     modules that define functions in the library, and ‘aux’ for
     auxiliary modules containing things like data definitions.  But the
     values of ‘routines’ and ‘aux’ are just concatenated, so there
     really is no practical difference.

‘tests’
     The names of test programs for this section of the library.  These
     should be simple names, such as ‘tester’ (rather than complete file
     names, such as ‘tester.c’).  ‘make tests’ will build and run all
     the test programs.  If a test program needs input, put the test
     data in a file called ‘TEST-PROGRAM.input’; it will be given to the
     test program on its standard input.  If a test program wants to be
     run with arguments, put the arguments (all on a single line) in a
     file called ‘TEST-PROGRAM.args’.  Test programs should exit with
     zero status when the test passes, and nonzero status when the test
     indicates a bug in the library or error in building.

‘others’
     The names of “other” programs associated with this section of the
     library.  These are programs which are not tests per se, but are
     other small programs included with the library.  They are built by
     ‘make others’.

‘install-lib’
‘install-data’
‘install’
     Files to be installed by ‘make install’.  Files listed in
     ‘install-lib’ are installed in the directory specified by ‘libdir’
     in ‘configparms’ or ‘Makeconfig’ (*note Installation::).  Files
     listed in ‘install-data’ are installed in the directory specified
     by ‘datadir’ in ‘configparms’ or ‘Makeconfig’.  Files listed in
     ‘install’ are installed in the directory specified by ‘bindir’ in
     ‘configparms’ or ‘Makeconfig’.

‘distribute’
     Other files from this subdirectory which should be put into a
     distribution tar file.  You need not list here the makefile itself
     or the source and header files listed in the other standard
     variables.  Only define ‘distribute’ if there are files used in an
     unusual way that should go into the distribution.

‘generated’
     Files which are generated by ‘Makefile’ in this subdirectory.
     These files will be removed by ‘make clean’, and they will never go
     into a distribution.

‘extra-objs’
     Extra object files which are built by ‘Makefile’ in this
     subdirectory.  This should be a list of file names like ‘foo.o’;
     the files will actually be found in whatever directory object files
     are being built in.  These files will be removed by ‘make clean’.
     This variable is used for secondary object files needed to build
     ‘others’ or ‘tests’.

* Menu:

* Platform: Adding Platform-specific.             Adding platform-specific
                                         features.

File: libc.info,  Node: Adding Platform-specific,  Up: Source Layout

D.1.1 Platform-specific types, macros and functions
---------------------------------------------------

It’s sometimes necessary to provide nonstandard, platform-specific
features to developers.  The C library is traditionally the lowest
library layer, so it makes sense for it to provide these low-level
features.  However, including these features in the C library may be a
disadvantage if another package provides them as well as there will be
two conflicting versions of them.  Also, the features won’t be available
to projects that do not use the GNU C Library but use other GNU tools,
like GCC.

   The current guidelines are:
   • If the header file provides features that only make sense on a
     particular machine architecture and have nothing to do with an
     operating system, then the features should ultimately be provided
     as GCC built-in functions.  Until then, the GNU C Library may
     provide them in the header file.  When the GCC built-in functions
     become available, those provided in the header file should be made
     conditionally available prior to the GCC version in which the
     built-in function was made available.

   • If the header file provides features that are specific to an
     operating system, both GCC and the GNU C Library could provide it,
     but the GNU C Library is preferred as it already has a lot of
     information about the operating system.

   • If the header file provides features that are specific to an
     operating system but used by the GNU C Library, then the GNU C
     Library should provide them.

   The general solution for providing low-level features is to export
them as follows:

   • A nonstandard, low-level header file that defines macros and inline
     functions should be called ‘sys/platform/NAME.h’.

   • Each header file’s name should include the platform name, to avoid
     users thinking there is anything in common between the different
     header files for different platforms.  For example, a
     ‘sys/platform/ARCH.h’ name such as ‘sys/platform/ppc.h’ is better
     than ‘sys/platform.h’.

   • A platform-specific header file provided by the GNU C Library
     should coordinate with GCC such that compiler built-in versions of
     the functions and macros are preferred if available.  This means
     that user programs will only ever need to include
     ‘sys/platform/ARCH.h’, keeping the same names of types, macros, and
     functions for convenience and portability.

   • Each included symbol must have the prefix ‘__ARCH_’, such as
     ‘__ppc_get_timebase’.

   The easiest way to provide a header file is to add it to the
‘sysdep_headers’ variable.  For example, the combination of
Linux-specific header files on PowerPC could be provided like this:

     sysdep_headers += sys/platform/ppc.h

   Then ensure that you have added a ‘sys/platform/ppc.h’ header file in
the machine-specific directory, e.g.,
‘sysdeps/powerpc/sys/platform/ppc.h’.

File: libc.info,  Node: Symbol handling,  Next: Porting,  Prev: Source Layout,  Up: Maintenance

