4.3.2  Intro

   The intro character sequence is given as the decimal value of the
   intro characters in the transport character set. There may be up to
   two characters used in the intro character sequence, and the decimal
   value for two-character intro sequences are then the first character
   value multiplied with 256 to the power of the number of octets used
   in the character set, plus the second character value.  The
   recommended value is 38 for the ampersand (&) character in ASCII.
   Another common value is 29 for the control character "Group
   Separator", or 8200 for "space" followed by "backspace", which may be
   convenient when operating in some environments, and ordinary text is
   not changed.  Only the ampersand character may be chosen as intro
   from the invariant ISO 646 charset, but any character not in the
   invariant ISO 646 character can be used as intro.  The intro
   character sequence is used for introducing character mnemonics when a
   character is not present in the mail transport character set (as
   defined by "charset").  Character mnemonics longer than two
   characters are surrounded by the underline character. The intro
   character sequence is doubled to represent one occurrence of itself.
   Characters in the mail transport character set are normally just
   represented with their encoding, but may also be represented by the
   intro character sequence and the mnemonic encoding.

   If the intro character sequence is specified as 0 (zero), it is
   omitted in the transport, giving a better readably content, but
   eliminating the possibility of reversibility and introducing an
   information loss.  With intro specified as 0, also underline
   characters surrounding mnemonics longer than 2 characters are
   removed.  Mnemonic charsets with the intro specified as zero is
   equivalent to the ordinary charset, e.g. "mnemonic+ascii+0" is
   equivalent to "ascii".

   The intro character can be given in a header "Mnemonic-Intro:" with
   the value given in decimal as noted above in the first parameter.
   This has only meaning if the charset can be deducted by other
   information as specified by the relevant Internet specification.
   This information has precedence over other information on the intro.


Simonsen                                                       [Page 45]

RFC 1345          Character Mnemonics & Character Sets         June 1992


