4.  CHARSETS

   The character mnemonics hav been used to table a number of coded
   character sets.  The coded character set names are taken if possible
   from the official ISO registration description in the ISO 2375 (ECMA)
   register, or with a number like the code page number - or with an
   indication of the language or country it is being used for - using

Simonsen                                                       [Page 41]

RFC 1345          Character Mnemonics & Character Sets         June 1992


   the country designators of ISO 3166.  For the character sets in the
   ECMA register, their ISO registration number is also given (as ISO-
   IR-xxx). Often the ISO registration number does not cover all the
   codes of a character set in use, but for instance only the graphical
   characters, where another ISO registration number covers the control
   characters; in the case of the 8-bit character sets the ISO
   registration only covers the upper graphical characters (GR).  The
   ISO registration number is here taken to indicate the full coded
   character set including control characters and lower half of the
   graphical characters, normally ISO 6429 and ASCII, respectively.

   The ISO definition of the term "coded character set" is as follows:
   "A set of unambiguous rules that establishes a character set and the
   one-to-one relationship between the characters of the set and their
   coded representation." and this definition may be subject to
   different interpretations.  This memo does not put further
   restrictions on the term of "coded character set" than the following:
   "A coded character set is a set of rules that unambiguously and
   completely determines which sequence of characters, if any, is
   represented by each possible sequence of n-bit bytes for a certain
   value of n." This implies that e.g. a coded character set extended
   with one or more other coded character sets by means of the extension
   techniques of ISO 2022 constitutes a coded character set in its own
   right.  In this memo the term "charset" is used to refer to the above
   interpretation of the ISO term "coded character set".

   A special problem is, if two characters of two different coded
   character sets with the same descriptive name, or depicted by what
   looks like the same graphic symbol, or with the same historical
   origin, really are to be regarded as the same character or not.  This
   problem has been studied in great detail in the development efforts
   that have resulted in ISO DIS 10646 and Unicode (under the heading
   "character unification").  As much as possible such results have been
   used in the construction of the code tables of this section.

