4.2  Code Table Format

   The following code tables are given in a simple format to facilitate
   use of this text as program input. Programs and routines written in C
   to handle these tables are freely available from the author of this
   memo. Keywords are signified with the character "&" as the first
   character, to distinguish them from ordinary data. Numbers may be
   given in decimal, hexadecimal or octal notation; hexadecimal numbers
   are given with an "x" as the first character, and octal numbers has
   an "o" as the first character.

Simonsen                                                       [Page 42]

RFC 1345          Character Mnemonics & Character Sets         June 1992


   The following keywords are used:

   "&charset" has one parameter defining the name of the character set.
   This is required for every character set.

   "&alias" has one parameter defining a possible alternate name for the
   character set. This is optional.

   "&g0esc", "&g1esc", "&g2esc", "&g3esc", "&c0esc", "&c1esc" has one
   parameter indicating the string of octets used to define the
   character set as the G0, G1, G2, G3, C0 or C1 set respectively,
   according to ISO 2022 (11).  The string is to be preceded by an ESC
   character. It is only the relevant parts of the table, which can be
   used with the definition; the charset is often coded with both
   graphical and control character sets.  If the coded character set is
   a 96-character set, it is tabled with the relevant GL set (normally
   ISO-IR-6) and with ISO 6429 as C0 and C1 (12).  If it is a 94-
   character set, it is tabled with the C0 set of ISO 6429. If it is a
   double-octet coded character set, it is tabled without control
   character sets and accompanying one-octet coded character sets, and
   the two-octet code is tabled as a G0 set.

   "&bits" has one parameter indicating the number of bits to represent
   the charset. This is optional and 8 bits is the default.

   "&code" has one parameter indicating the byte number allocated to the
   following character mnemonic. After the "&code" specification the
   characters are listed with their mnemonic in ascending order.  A
   character mnemonic of "??" indicates that the position is unused.  A
   character mnemonic of "__" indicates that the character set is not
   completely defined with the specifications in this memo.

   "&code2" has 2 parameters specifying the row and column in certain
   16-bit character sets.  The value 32 must be added to obtain the
   first and second byte respectively.  Mnemonics can be specified after
   the "&code2" specification as mentioned for the "&code"
   specification.

   "&codex" has 5 parameters, specifying the character set prefix
   string, the start row number, the end row number, the start column
   number and the end column number respectively. This is equivalent to
   specifying a series of mnemonics of the form "nrrcc" where "n" is the
   character set name prefix string, "rr" is the row number running from
   the specified start row number to the end row number, and "cc" is the
   column number running from the specified start column number to the
   end column number.  The thereby created series mnemonics are
   allocated to code positions which are added 32 to the row and column
   numbers to get the row and column octet.

   "&duplicate" has a special meaning indicating that a position is
   being used for more than one character. This is an ugly convention
   but it is a sad fact of life that same code in one coded character
   set can mean different characters. "&duplicate" takes two parameters

Simonsen                                                       [Page 43]

RFC 1345          Character Mnemonics & Character Sets         June 1992


   - the first is the code to be duplicated, the other is the new
   mnemonic.

   "&rem" is followed by text to explain something in the table to a
   human reader.  All lines in such a remark has to start with this
   keyword.

   "&comb2" specifies a combination of two characters which signifies a
   third character.  All characters in the specification are given by
   their mnemonic.  The two combining characters must be specified
   previously in the code table.  The first combining character is
   specified as the first character after the keyword, and then the
   following pairs of characters are the second combining character and
   the result, respectively.  The specification can be repeated,
   terminated by an occurrence of a keyword.

