4.3  Mnemonic charsets

   The following is compatible with current practice on the internet
   within EUnet - the European not-for-profit networking organisation in
   Europe and North Africa currently operating in 24 countries.

   The mnemonic charsets are a family of charsets which have the
   facility that within the relevant parts of the message, encoded in an
   ordinary coded character set, text may have occurrences of the
   following sequence: an intro character sequence, followed by a string
   of characters that represent a character mnemonic, as described
   below.  Similarly, the intro character sequence may be doubled,
   indicating a single occurrence of the respective symbols in decoded
   format.

   Note that many characters within a mnemonic character set may be
   represented in two different ways.  Normally the character itself is
   used, but it is also possible to use the mnemonic allocated to the
   character in a mnemonic sequence.

   In this way all characters with assigned mnemonics can be represented
   without information loss in any character set, which contains the
   invariant ISO 646 characters as a subset.  As a consequence, using a
   mnemonic character set all these characters can be generated
   uniformly on all keyboards and presented uniformly on all terminal
   equipment, whenever the real character is not available.

   Data encoded in a mnemonic charset is intended to be read by the end
   user possibly without further treatment.  If the transport encoding
   and the presentation encoding for the user differ, it is recommended
   that the data be translated into a mnemonic representation in the
   presentation encoding.

   A mnemonic charset is specified with the name
   "mnemonic+charset+intro" where "mnemonic" is written as given and
   "charset" and "intro" is specified as described below. The mnemonic
   charset "mnemonic" is a shorthand for "mnemonic+ascii+38".  The

Simonsen                                                       [Page 44]

RFC 1345          Character Mnemonics & Character Sets         June 1992


   mnemonic charset "mnem" is a shorthand for "mnemonic+ascii+8200".

   It is discouraged to use mnemonics for Chinese characters of either
   Chinese, Japanese or Korean origin, as the probability that the end
   user equipment can deal with the original encoding is very high for
   the intended receiver, and the mnemonics for such Chinese characters
   described in this memo convey very little meaning to humans.

