Appendix A.  Design Rationale for Choice of UDP Port Number

   Arguments were made for and against using UDP port 53, the standard
   Unicast DNS port.  Some of the arguments are given below.  The
   arguments for using a different port were greater in number and more
   compelling, so that option was ultimately selected.  The UDP port
   "5353" was selected for its mnemonic similarity to "53".

   Arguments for using UDP port 53:

   * This is "just DNS", so it should be the same port.

   * There is less work to be done updating old resolver libraries to do
     simple Multicast DNS queries.  Only the destination address need be
     changed.  In some cases, this can be achieved without any code
     changes, just by adding the address 224.0.0.251 to a configuration
     file.

   Arguments for using a different port (UDP port 5353):

   * This is not "just DNS".  This is a DNS-like protocol, but
     different.

   * Changing resolver library code to use a different port number is
     not hard.  In some cases, this can be achieved without any code
     changes, just by adding the address 224.0.0.251:5353 to a
     configuration file.

   * Using the same port number makes it hard to run a Multicast DNS
     responder and a conventional Unicast DNS server on the same
     machine.  If a conventional Unicast DNS server wishes to implement
     Multicast DNS as well, it can still do that, by opening two
     sockets.  Having two different port numbers allows this
     flexibility.

   * Some VPN software hijacks all outgoing traffic to port 53 and
     redirects it to a special DNS server set up to serve those VPN
     clients while they are connected to the corporate network.  It is
     questionable whether this is the right thing to do, but it is
     common, and redirecting link-local multicast DNS packets to a
     remote server rarely produces any useful results.  It does mean,
     for example, that a user of such VPN software becomes unable to
     access their local network printer sitting on their desk right next
     to their computer.  Using a different UDP port helps avoid this
     particular problem.






Cheshire & Krochmal          Standards Track                   [Page 60]

RFC 6762                      Multicast DNS                February 2013


   * On many operating systems, unprivileged software may not send or
     receive packets on low-numbered ports.  This means that any
     software sending or receiving Multicast DNS packets on port 53
     would have to run as "root", which is an undesirable security risk.
     Using a higher-numbered UDP port avoids this restriction.

