12.  Special Characteristics of Multicast DNS Domains

   Unlike conventional DNS names, names that end in ".local." have only
   local significance.  The same is true of names within the IPv4 link-
   local reverse mapping domain "254.169.in-addr.arpa." and the IPv6
   link-local reverse mapping domains "8.e.f.ip6.arpa.",
   "9.e.f.ip6.arpa.", "a.e.f.ip6.arpa.", and "b.e.f.ip6.arpa.".

   These names function primarily as protocol identifiers, rather than
   as user-visible identifiers.  Even though they may occasionally be
   visible to end users, that is not their primary purpose.  As such,
   these names should be treated as opaque identifiers.  In particular,
   the string "local" should not be translated or localized into
   different languages, much as the name "localhost" is not translated
   or localized into different languages.

   Conventional Unicast DNS seeks to provide a single unified namespace,
   where a given DNS query yields the same answer no matter where on the
   planet it is performed or to which recursive DNS server the query is
   sent.  In contrast, each IP link has its own private ".local.",
   "254.169.in-addr.arpa." and IPv6 link-local reverse mapping
   namespaces, and the answer to any query for a name within those
   domains depends on where that query is asked.  (This characteristic
   is not unique to Multicast DNS.  Although the original concept of DNS
   was a single global namespace, in recent years, split views,
   firewalls, intranets, DNS geolocation, and the like have increasingly
   meant that the answer to a given DNS query has become dependent on
   the location of the querier.)

   The IPv4 name server address for a Multicast DNS domain is
   224.0.0.251.  The IPv6 name server address for a Multicast DNS domain
   is FF02::FB.  These are multicast addresses; therefore, they identify
   not a single host but a collection of hosts, working in cooperation
   to maintain some reasonable facsimile of a competently managed DNS
   zone.  Conceptually, a Multicast DNS domain is a single DNS zone;
   however, its server is implemented as a distributed process running
   on a cluster of loosely cooperating CPUs rather than as a single
   process running on a single CPU.

   Multicast DNS domains are not delegated from their parent domain via
   use of NS (Name Server) records, and there is also no concept of
   delegation of subdomains within a Multicast DNS domain.  Just because
   a particular host on the network may answer queries for a particular
   record type with the name "example.local." does not imply anything
   about whether that host will answer for the name
   "child.example.local.", or indeed for other record types with the
   name "example.local.".




Cheshire & Krochmal          Standards Track                   [Page 40]

RFC 6762                      Multicast DNS                February 2013


   There are no NS records anywhere in Multicast DNS domains.  Instead,
   the Multicast DNS domains are reserved by IANA, and there is
   effectively an implicit delegation of all Multicast DNS domains to
   the 224.0.0.251:5353 and [FF02::FB]:5353 multicast groups, by virtue
   of client software implementing the protocol rules specified in this
   document.

   Multicast DNS zones have no SOA (Start of Authority) record.  A
   conventional DNS zone's SOA record contains information such as the
   email address of the zone administrator and the monotonically
   increasing serial number of the last zone modification.  There is no
   single human administrator for any given Multicast DNS zone, so there
   is no email address.  Because the hosts managing any given Multicast
   DNS zone are only loosely coordinated, there is no readily available
   monotonically increasing serial number to determine whether or not
   the zone contents have changed.  A host holding part of the shared
   zone could crash or be disconnected from the network at any time
   without informing the other hosts.  There is no reliable way to
   provide a zone serial number that would, whenever such a crash or
   disconnection occurred, immediately change to indicate that the
   contents of the shared zone had changed.

   Zone transfers are not possible for any Multicast DNS zone.

