Appendix B.  Design Rationale for Not Using Hashed Multicast Addresses

   Some discovery protocols use a range of multicast addresses, and
   determine the address to be used by a hash function of the name being
   sought.  Queries are sent via multicast to the address as indicated
   by the hash function, and responses are returned to the querier via
   unicast.  Particularly in IPv6, where multicast addresses are
   extremely plentiful, this approach is frequently advocated.  For
   example, IPv6 Neighbor Discovery [RFC4861] sends Neighbor
   Solicitation messages to the "solicited-node multicast address",
   which is computed as a function of the solicited IPv6 address.

   There are some disadvantages to using hashed multicast addresses like
   this in a service discovery protocol:

   * When a host has a large number of records with different names, the
     host may have to join a large number of multicast groups.  Each
     time a host joins or leaves a multicast group, this results in
     Internet Group Management Protocol (IGMP) or Multicast Listener
     Discovery (MLD) traffic on the network announcing this fact.
     Joining a large number of multicast groups can place undue burden
     on the Ethernet hardware, which typically supports a limited number
     of multicast addresses efficiently.  When this number is exceeded,
     the Ethernet hardware may have to resort to receiving all
     multicasts and passing them up to the host networking code for
     filtering in software, thereby defeating much of the point of using
     a multicast address range in the first place.  Finally, many IPv6
     stacks have a fixed limit IPV6_MAX_MEMBERSHIPS, and the code simply
     fails with an error if a client attempts to exceed this limit.
     Common values for IPV6_MAX_MEMBERSHIPS are 20 or 31.

   * Multiple questions cannot be placed in one packet if they don't all
     hash to the same multicast address.

   * Duplicate Question Suppression doesn't work if queriers are not
     seeing each other's queries.

   * Duplicate Answer Suppression doesn't work if responders are not
     seeing each other's responses.

   * Opportunistic Caching doesn't work.




Cheshire & Krochmal          Standards Track                   [Page 61]

RFC 6762                      Multicast DNS                February 2013


   * Ongoing Conflict Detection doesn't work.

