Appendix D.  Benefits of Multicast Responses

   Some people have argued that sending responses via multicast is
   inefficient on the network.  In fact, using multicast responses can
   result in a net lowering of overall multicast traffic for a variety
   of reasons, and provides other benefits too:

   * Opportunistic Caching.  One multicast response can update the
     caches on all machines on the network.  If another machine later
     wants to issue the same query, and it already has the answer in its
     cache, it may not need to even transmit that multicast query on the
     network at all.

   * Duplicate Query Suppression.  When more than one machine has the
     same ongoing long-lived query running, every machine does not have
     to transmit its own independent query.  When one machine transmits
     a query, all the other hosts see the answers, so they can suppress
     their own queries.

   * Passive Observation Of Failures (POOF).  When a host sees a
     multicast query, but does not see the corresponding multicast
     response, it can use this information to promptly delete stale data
     from its cache.  To achieve the same level of user-interface
     quality and responsiveness without multicast responses would
     require lower cache lifetimes and more frequent network polling,
     resulting in a higher packet rate.

   * Passive Conflict Detection.  Just because a name has been
     previously verified to be unique does not guarantee it will
     continue to be so indefinitely.  By allowing all Multicast DNS



Cheshire & Krochmal          Standards Track                   [Page 64]

RFC 6762                      Multicast DNS                February 2013


     responders to constantly monitor their peers' responses, conflicts
     arising out of network topology changes can be promptly detected
     and resolved.  If responses were not sent via multicast, some other
     conflict detection mechanism would be needed, imposing its own
     additional burden on the network.

   * Use on devices with constrained memory resources: When using
     delayed responses to reduce network collisions, responders need to
     maintain a list recording to whom each answer should be sent.  The
     option of multicast responses allows responders with limited
     storage, which cannot store an arbitrarily long list of response
     addresses, to choose to fail-over to a single multicast response in
     place of multiple unicast responses, when appropriate.

   * Overlayed Subnets.  In the case of overlayed subnets, multicast
     responses allow a receiver to know with certainty that a response
     originated on the local link, even when its source address may
     apparently suggest otherwise.

   * Robustness in the face of misconfiguration: Link-local multicast
     transcends virtually every conceivable network misconfiguration.
     Even if you have a collection of devices where every device's IP
     address, subnet mask, default gateway, and DNS server address are
     all wrong, packets sent by any of those devices addressed to a
     link-local multicast destination address will still be delivered to
     all peers on the local link.  This can be extremely helpful when
     diagnosing and rectifying network problems, since it facilitates a
     direct communication channel between client and server that works
     without reliance on ARP, IP routing tables, etc.  Being able to
     discover what IP address a device has (or thinks it has) is
     frequently a very valuable first step in diagnosing why it is
     unable to communicate on the local network.

