Appendix E.  Design Rationale for Encoding Negative Responses

   Alternative methods of asserting nonexistence were considered, such
   as using an NXDOMAIN response, or emitting a resource record with
   zero-length rdata.

   Using an NXDOMAIN response does not work well with Multicast DNS.  A
   Unicast DNS NXDOMAIN response applies to the entire message, but for
   efficiency Multicast DNS allows (and encourages) multiple responses
   in a single message.  If the error code in the header were NXDOMAIN,
   it would not be clear to which name(s) that error code applied.

   Asserting nonexistence by emitting a resource record with zero-length
   rdata would mean that there would be no way to differentiate between
   a record that doesn't exist, and a record that does exist, with zero-



Cheshire & Krochmal          Standards Track                   [Page 65]

RFC 6762                      Multicast DNS                February 2013


   length rdata.  By analogy, most file systems today allow empty files,
   so a file that exists with zero bytes of data is not considered
   equivalent to a filename that does not exist.

   A benefit of asserting nonexistence through NSEC records instead of
   through NXDOMAIN responses is that NSEC records can be added to the
   Additional Section of a DNS response to offer additional information
   beyond what the querier explicitly requested.  For example, in
   response to an SRV query, a responder should include A record(s)
   giving its IPv4 addresses in the Additional Section, and an NSEC
   record indicating which other types it does or does not have for this
   name.  If the responder is running on a host that does not support
   IPv6 (or does support IPv6 but currently has no IPv6 address on that
   interface) then this NSEC record in the Additional Section will
   indicate this absence of AAAA records.  In effect, the responder is
   saying, "Here's my SRV record, and here are my IPv4 addresses, and
   no, I don't have any IPv6 addresses, so don't waste your time
   asking".  Without this information in the Additional Section, it
   would take the querier an additional round-trip to perform an
   additional query to ascertain that the target host has no AAAA
   records.  (Arguably Unicast DNS could also benefit from this ability
   to express nonexistence in the Additional Section, but that is
   outside the scope of this document.)

