4.2. DHCP Terminology

   Terminology specific to DHCP can be found below.

      appropriate to the link   An address is "appropriate to the link"
                                when the address is consistent with the
                                DHCP server's knowledge of the network
                                topology, prefix assignment and address
                                assignment policies.

      binding                   A binding (or, client binding) is a
                                group of server data records containing
                                the information the server has about
                                the addresses in an IA or configuration
                                information explicitly assigned to the
                                client.  Configuration information that
                                has been returned to a client through a
                                policy - for example, the information
                                returned to all clients on the same
                                link - does not require a binding.  A
                                binding containing information about
                                an IA is indexed by the tuple <DUID,
                                IA-type, IAID> (where IA-type is the
                                type of address in the IA; for example,
                                temporary).  A binding containing
                                configuration information for a client
                                is indexed by <DUID>.






Droms, et al.               Standards Track                    [Page 10]

RFC 3315                     DHCP for IPv6                     July 2003


      configuration parameter   An element of the configuration
                                information set on the server and
                                delivered to the client using DHCP.
                                Such parameters may be used to carry
                                information to be used by a node to
                                configure its network subsystem and
                                enable communication on a link or
                                internetwork, for example.

      DHCP                      Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol
                                for IPv6.  The terms DHCPv4 and DHCPv6
                                are used only in contexts where it is
                                necessary to avoid ambiguity.

      DHCP client (or client)   A node that initiates requests on a link
                                to obtain configuration parameters from
                                one or more DHCP servers.

      DHCP domain               A set of links managed by DHCP and
                                operated by a single administrative
                                entity.

      DHCP realm                A name used to identify the DHCP
                                administrative domain from which a DHCP
                                authentication key was selected.

      DHCP relay agent (or relay agent) A node that acts as an
                                intermediary to deliver DHCP messages
                                between clients and servers, and is on
                                the same link as the client.

      DHCP server (or server)   A node that responds to requests from
                                clients, and may or may not be on the
                                same link as the client(s).

      DUID                      A DHCP Unique IDentifier for a DHCP
                                participant; each DHCP client and server
                                has exactly one DUID.  See section 9 for
                                details of the ways in which a DUID may
                                be constructed.

      Identity association (IA) A collection of addresses assigned to
                                a client.  Each IA has an associated
                                IAID.  A client may have more than one
                                IA assigned to it; for example, one for
                                each of its interfaces.





Droms, et al.               Standards Track                    [Page 11]

RFC 3315                     DHCP for IPv6                     July 2003


                                Each IA holds one type of address;
                                for example, an identity association
                                for temporary addresses (IA_TA) holds
                                temporary addresses (see "identity
                                association for temporary addresses").
                                Throughout this document, "IA" is used
                                to refer to an identity association
                                without identifying the type of
                                addresses in the IA.

      Identity association identifier (IAID) An identifier for an IA,
                                chosen by the client.  Each IA has an
                                IAID, which is chosen to be unique among
                                all IAIDs for IAs belonging to that
                                client.

      Identity association for non-temporary addresses (IA_NA) An IA
                                that carries assigned addresses that are
                                not temporary addresses (see "identity
                                association for temporary addresses")

      Identity association for temporary addresses (IA_TA) An IA that
                                carries temporary addresses (see RFC
                                3041 [12]).

      message                   A unit of data carried as the payload
                                of a UDP datagram, exchanged among DHCP
                                servers, relay agents and clients.

      Reconfigure key           A key supplied to a client by a server
                                used to provide security for Reconfigure
                                messages.

      relaying                  A DHCP relay agent relays DHCP messages
                                between DHCP participants.

      transaction ID            An opaque value used to match responses
                                with replies initiated either by a
                                client or server.

