5.3. DHCP Message Types

   DHCP defines the following message types.  More detail on these
   message types can be found in sections 6 and 7.  Message types not
   listed here are reserved for future use.  The numeric encoding for
   each message type is shown in parentheses.

      SOLICIT (1)        A client sends a Solicit message to locate
                         servers.

      ADVERTISE (2)      A server sends an Advertise message to indicate
                         that it is available for DHCP service, in
                         response to a Solicit message received from a
                         client.

      REQUEST (3)        A client sends a Request message to request
                         configuration parameters, including IP
                         addresses, from a specific server.

      CONFIRM (4)        A client sends a Confirm message to any
                         available server to determine whether the
                         addresses it was assigned are still appropriate
                         to the link to which the client is connected.



Droms, et al.               Standards Track                    [Page 13]

RFC 3315                     DHCP for IPv6                     July 2003


      RENEW (5)          A client sends a Renew message to the server
                         that originally provided the client's addresses
                         and configuration parameters to extend the
                         lifetimes on the addresses assigned to the
                         client and to update other configuration
                         parameters.

      REBIND (6)         A client sends a Rebind message to any
                         available server to extend the lifetimes on the
                         addresses assigned to the client and to update
                         other configuration parameters; this message is
                         sent after a client receives no response to a
                         Renew message.

      REPLY (7)          A server sends a Reply message containing
                         assigned addresses and configuration parameters
                         in response to a Solicit, Request, Renew,
                         Rebind message received from a client.  A
                         server sends a Reply message containing
                         configuration parameters in response to an
                         Information-request message.  A server sends a
                         Reply message in response to a Confirm message
                         confirming or denying that the addresses
                         assigned to the client are appropriate to the
                         link to which the client is connected.  A
                         server sends a Reply message to acknowledge
                         receipt of a Release or Decline message.

      RELEASE (8)        A client sends a Release message to the server
                         that assigned addresses to the client to
                         indicate that the client will no longer use one
                         or more of the assigned addresses.

      DECLINE (9)        A client sends a Decline message to a server to
                         indicate that the client has determined that
                         one or more addresses assigned by the server
                         are already in use on the link to which the
                         client is connected.

      RECONFIGURE (10)   A server sends a Reconfigure message to a
                         client to inform the client that the server has
                         new or updated configuration parameters, and
                         that the client is to initiate a Renew/Reply
                         or Information-request/Reply transaction with
                         the server in order to receive the updated
                         information.





Droms, et al.               Standards Track                    [Page 14]

RFC 3315                     DHCP for IPv6                     July 2003


      INFORMATION-REQUEST (11) A client sends an Information-request
                         message to a server to request configuration
                         parameters without the assignment of any IP
                         addresses to the client.

      RELAY-FORW (12)    A relay agent sends a Relay-forward message
                         to relay messages to servers, either directly
                         or through another relay agent.  The received
                         message, either a client message or a
                         Relay-forward message from another relay
                         agent, is encapsulated in an option in the
                         Relay-forward message.

      RELAY-REPL (13)    A server sends a Relay-reply message to a relay
                         agent containing a message that the relay
                         agent delivers to a client.  The Relay-reply
                         message may be relayed by other relay agents
                         for delivery to the destination relay agent.

                         The server encapsulates the client message as
                         an option in the Relay-reply message, which the
                         relay agent extracts and relays to the client.

