11. Selecting Addresses for Assignment to an IA

   A server selects addresses to be assigned to an IA according to the
   address assignment policies determined by the server administrator
   and the specific information the server determines about the client
   from some combination of the following sources:

   -  The link to which the client is attached.  The server determines
      the link as follows:

      *  If the server receives the message directly from the client and
         the source address in the IP datagram in which the message was
         received is a link-local address, then the client is on the
         same link to which the interface over which the message was
         received is attached.

      *  If the server receives the message from a forwarding relay
         agent, then the client is on the same link as the one to which
         the interface, identified by the link-address field in the
         message from the relay agent, is attached.

      *  If the server receives the message directly from the client and
         the source address in the IP datagram in which the message was
         received is not a link-local address, then the client is on the
         link identified by the source address in the IP datagram (note
         that this situation can occur only if the server has enabled
         the use of unicast message delivery by the client and the
         client has sent a message for which unicast delivery is
         allowed).

   -  The DUID supplied by the client.

   -  Other information in options supplied by the client.



Droms, et al.               Standards Track                    [Page 24]

RFC 3315                     DHCP for IPv6                     July 2003


   -  Other information in options supplied by the relay agent.

   Any address assigned by a server that is based on an EUI-64
   identifier MUST include an interface identifier with the "u"
   (universal/local) and "g" (individual/group) bits of the interface
   identifier set appropriately, as indicated in section 2.5.1 of RFC
   2373 [5].

   A server MUST NOT assign an address that is otherwise reserved for
   some other purpose.  For example, a server MUST NOT assign reserved
   anycast addresses, as defined in RFC 2526, from any subnet.

