17.2.2. Creation and Transmission of Advertise Messages

   The server sets the "msg-type" field to ADVERTISE and copies the
   contents of the transaction-id field from the Solicit message
   received from the client to the Advertise message.  The server
   includes its server identifier in a Server Identifier option and
   copies the Client Identifier from the Solicit message into the
   Advertise message.






Droms, et al.               Standards Track                    [Page 36]

RFC 3315                     DHCP for IPv6                     July 2003


   The server MAY add a Preference option to carry the preference value
   for the Advertise message.  The server implementation SHOULD allow
   the setting of a server preference value by the administrator.  The
   server preference value MUST default to zero unless otherwise
   configured by the server administrator.

   The server includes a Reconfigure Accept option if the server wants
   to require that the client accept Reconfigure messages.

   The server includes options the server will return to the client in a
   subsequent Reply message.  The information in these options may be
   used by the client in the selection of a server if the client
   receives more than one Advertise message.  If the client has included
   an Option Request option in the Solicit message, the server includes
   options in the Advertise message containing configuration parameters
   for all of the options identified in the Option Request option that
   the server has been configured to return to the client.  The server
   MAY return additional options to the client if it has been configured
   to do so.  The server must be aware of the recommendations on packet
   sizes and the use of fragmentation in section 5 of RFC 2460.

   If the Solicit message from the client included one or more IA
   options, the server MUST include IA options in the Advertise message
   containing any addresses that would be assigned to IAs contained in
   the Solicit message from the client.  If the client has included
   addresses in the IAs in the Solicit message, the server uses those
   addresses as hints about the addresses the client would like to
   receive.

   If the server will not assign any addresses to any IAs in a
   subsequent Request from the client, the server MUST send an Advertise
   message to the client that includes only a Status Code option with
   code NoAddrsAvail and a status message for the user, a Server
   Identifier option with the server's DUID, and a Client Identifier
   option with the client's DUID.

   If the Solicit message was received directly by the server, the
   server unicasts the Advertise message directly to the client using
   the address in the source address field from the IP datagram in which
   the Solicit message was received.  The Advertise message MUST be
   unicast on the link from which the Solicit message was received.

   If the Solicit message was received in a Relay-forward message, the
   server constructs a Relay-reply message with the Advertise message in
   the payload of a "relay-message" option.  If the Relay-forward
   messages included an Interface-id option, the server copies that
   option to the Relay-reply message.  The server unicasts the
   Relay-reply message directly to the relay agent using the address in



Droms, et al.               Standards Track                    [Page 37]

RFC 3315                     DHCP for IPv6                     July 2003


   the source address field from the IP datagram in which the Relay-
   forward message was received.

