18.1.2. Creation and Transmission of Confirm Messages

   Whenever a client may have moved to a new link, the prefixes from the
   addresses assigned to the interfaces on that link may no longer be
   appropriate for the link to which the client is attached.  Examples
   of times when a client may have moved to a new link include:

   o  The client reboots.

   o  The client is physically connected to a wired connection.

   o  The client returns from sleep mode.

   o  The client using a wireless technology changes access points.

   In any situation when a client may have moved to a new link, the
   client MUST initiate a Confirm/Reply message exchange.  The client
   includes any IAs assigned to the interface that may have moved to a
   new link, along with the addresses associated with those IAs, in its






Droms, et al.               Standards Track                    [Page 40]

RFC 3315                     DHCP for IPv6                     July 2003


   Confirm message.  Any responding servers will indicate whether those
   addresses are appropriate for the link to which the client is
   attached with the status in the Reply message it returns to the
   client.

   The client sets the "msg-type" field to CONFIRM.  The client
   generates a transaction ID and inserts this value in the
   "transaction-id" field.

   The client MUST include a Client Identifier option to identify itself
   to the server.  The client includes IA options for all of the IAs
   assigned to the interface for which the Confirm message is being
   sent.  The IA options include all of the addresses the client
   currently has associated with those IAs.  The client SHOULD set the
   T1 and T2 fields in any IA_NA options, and the preferred-lifetime and
   valid-lifetime fields in the IA Address options to 0, as the server
   will ignore these fields.

   The first Confirm message from the client on the interface MUST be
   delayed by a random amount of time between 0 and CNF_MAX_DELAY.  The
   client transmits the message according to section 14, using the
   following parameters:

      IRT   CNF_TIMEOUT

      MRT   CNF_MAX_RT

      MRC   0

      MRD   CNF_MAX_RD

   If the client receives no responses before the message transmission
   process terminates, as described in section 14, the client SHOULD
   continue to use any IP addresses, using the last known lifetimes for
   those addresses, and SHOULD continue to use any other previously
   obtained configuration parameters.

