18.1.4. Creation and Transmission of Rebind Messages

   At time T2 for an IA (which will only be reached if the server to
   which the Renew message was sent at time T1 has not responded), the
   client initiates a Rebind/Reply message exchange with any available
   server.  The client includes an IA option with all addresses
   currently assigned to the IA in its Rebind message.

   The client sets the "msg-type" field to REBIND.  The client generates
   a transaction ID and inserts this value in the "transaction-id"
   field.

   The client MUST include a Client Identifier option to identify itself
   to the server.  The client adds any appropriate options, including
   one or more IA options.  The client MUST include the list of
   addresses the client currently has associated with the IAs in the
   Rebind message.

   The client MUST include an Option Request option (see section 22.7)
   to indicate the options the client is interested in receiving.  The
   client MAY include options with data values as hints to the server
   about parameter values the client would like to have returned.

   The client transmits the message according to section 14, using the
   following parameters:

      IRT   REB_TIMEOUT

      MRT   REB_MAX_RT

      MRC   0

      MRD   Remaining time until valid lifetimes of all addresses have
            expired

   The message exchange is terminated when the valid lifetimes of all
   the addresses assigned to the IA expire (see section 10), at which
   time the client has several alternative actions to choose from; for
   example:

   -  The client may choose to use a Solicit message to locate a new
      DHCP server and send a Request for the expired IA to the new
      server.




Droms, et al.               Standards Track                    [Page 43]

RFC 3315                     DHCP for IPv6                     July 2003


   -  The client may have other addresses in other IAs, so the client
      may choose to discard the expired IA and use the addresses in the
      other IAs.

