18.2.7. Receipt of Decline Messages

   When the server receives a Decline message via unicast from a client
   to which the server has not sent a unicast option, the server
   discards the Decline message and responds with a Reply message
   containing a Status Code option with the value UseMulticast, a Server
   Identifier option containing the server's DUID, the Client Identifier
   option from the client message, and no other options.



Droms, et al.               Standards Track                    [Page 53]

RFC 3315                     DHCP for IPv6                     July 2003


   Upon the receipt of a valid Decline message, the server examines the
   IAs and the addresses in the IAs for validity.  If the IAs in the
   message are in a binding for the client, and the addresses in the IAs
   have been assigned by the server to those IAs, the server deletes the
   addresses from the IAs.  The server ignores addresses not assigned to
   the IA (though it may choose to log an error if it finds such an
   address).

   The client has found any addresses in the Decline messages to be
   already in use on its link.  Therefore, the server SHOULD mark the
   addresses declined by the client so that those addresses are not
   assigned to other clients, and MAY choose to make a notification that
   addresses were declined.  Local policy on the server determines when
   the addresses identified in a Decline message may be made available
   for assignment.

   After all the addresses have been processed, the server generates a
   Reply message and includes a Status Code option with the value
   Success, a Server Identifier option with the server's DUID, and a
   Client Identifier option with the client's DUID.  For each IA in the
   Decline message for which the server has no binding information, the
   server adds an IA option using the IAID from the Release message and
   includes a Status Code option with the value NoBinding in the IA
   option.  No other options are included in the IA option.

