19.4.1. Receipt of Reconfigure Messages

   Upon receipt of a valid Reconfigure message, the client responds with
   either a Renew message or an Information-request message as indicated
   by the Reconfigure Message option (as defined in section 22.19).  The
   client ignores the transaction-id field in the received Reconfigure
   message.  While the transaction is in progress, the client silently
   discards any Reconfigure messages it receives.

   DISCUSSION:

      The Reconfigure message acts as a trigger that signals the client
      to complete a successful message exchange.  Once the client has
      received a Reconfigure, the client proceeds with the message
      exchange (retransmitting the Renew or Information-request message
      if necessary); the client ignores any additional Reconfigure
      messages until the exchange is complete.  Subsequent Reconfigure
      messages cause the client to initiate a new exchange.

      How does this mechanism work in the face of duplicated or
      retransmitted Reconfigure messages?  Duplicate messages will be
      ignored because the client will begin the exchange after the
      receipt of the first Reconfigure.  Retransmitted messages will
      either trigger the exchange (if the first Reconfigure was not
      received by the client) or will be ignored.  The server can
      discontinue retransmission of Reconfigure messages to the client
      once the server receives the Renew or Information-request message
      from the client.

      It might be possible for a duplicate or retransmitted Reconfigure
      to be sufficiently delayed (and delivered out of order) to arrive
      at the client after the exchange (initiated by the original
      Reconfigure) has been completed.  In this case, the client would
      initiate a redundant exchange.  The likelihood of delayed and out



Droms, et al.               Standards Track                    [Page 57]

RFC 3315                     DHCP for IPv6                     July 2003


      of order delivery is small enough to be ignored.  The consequence
      of the redundant exchange is inefficiency rather than incorrect
      operation.

