21.1. Security of Messages Sent Between Servers and Relay Agents

   Relay agents and servers that exchange messages securely use the
   IPsec mechanisms for IPv6 [7].  If a client message is relayed
   through multiple relay agents, each of the relay agents must have
   established independent, pairwise trust relationships.  That is, if
   messages from client C will be relayed by relay agent A to relay



Droms, et al.               Standards Track                    [Page 61]

RFC 3315                     DHCP for IPv6                     July 2003


   agent B and then to the server, relay agents A and B must be
   configured to use IPSec for the messages they exchange, and relay
   agent B and the server must be configured to use IPSec for the
   messages they exchange.

   Relay agents and servers that support secure relay agent to server or
   relay agent to relay agent communication use IPsec under the
   following conditions:

      Selectors        Relay agents are manually configured with the
                       addresses of the relay agent or server to which
                       DHCP messages are to be forwarded.  Each relay
                       agent and server that will be using IPsec for
                       securing DHCP messages must also be configured
                       with a list of the relay agents to which messages
                       will be returned.  The selectors for the relay
                       agents and servers will be the pairs of addresses
                       defining relay agents and servers that exchange
                       DHCP messages on the DHCPv6 UDP ports 546 and
                       547.

      Mode             Relay agents and servers use transport mode and
                       ESP. The information in DHCP messages is not
                       generally considered confidential, so encryption
                       need not be used (i.e., NULL encryption can be
                       used).

      Key management   Because the relay agents and servers are used
                       within an organization, public key schemes are
                       not necessary.  Because the relay agents and
                       servers must be manually configured, manually
                       configured key management may suffice, but does
                       not provide defense against replayed messages.
                       Accordingly, IKE with preshared secrets SHOULD be
                       supported.  IKE with public keys MAY be
                       supported.

      Security policy  DHCP messages between relay agents and servers
                       should only be accepted from DHCP peers as
                       identified in the local configuration.

      Authentication   Shared keys, indexed to the source IP address of
                       the received DHCP message, are adequate in this
                       application.

      Availability     Appropriate IPsec implementations are likely to
                       be available for servers and for relay agents in
                       more featureful devices used in enterprise and



Droms, et al.               Standards Track                    [Page 62]

RFC 3315                     DHCP for IPv6                     July 2003


                       core ISP networks.  IPsec is less likely to be
                       available for relay agents in low end devices
                       primarily used in the home or small office
                       markets.

