23. Security Considerations

   The threat to DHCP is inherently an insider threat (assuming a
   properly configured network where DHCPv6 ports are blocked on the
   perimeter gateways of the enterprise).  Regardless of the gateway
   configuration, however, the potential attacks by insiders and
   outsiders are the same.

   Use of manually configured preshared keys for IPsec between relay
   agents and servers does not defend against replayed DHCP messages.
   Replayed messages can represent a DOS attack through exhaustion of
   processing resources, but not through mis-configuration or exhaustion
   of other resources such as assignable addresses.

   One attack specific to a DHCP client is the establishment of a
   malicious server with the intent of providing incorrect configuration
   information to the client.  The motivation for doing so may be to



Droms, et al.               Standards Track                    [Page 89]

RFC 3315                     DHCP for IPv6                     July 2003


   mount a "man in the middle" attack that causes the client to
   communicate with a malicious server instead of a valid server for
   some service such as DNS or NTP.  The malicious server may also mount
   a denial of service attack through misconfiguration of the client
   that causes all network communication from the client to fail.

   There is another threat to DHCP clients from mistakenly or
   accidentally configured DHCP servers that answer DHCP client requests
   with unintentionally incorrect configuration parameters.

   A DHCP client may also be subject to attack through the receipt of a
   Reconfigure message from a malicious server that causes the client to
   obtain incorrect configuration information from that server.  Note
   that although a client sends its response (Renew or
   Information-request message) through a relay agent and, therefore,
   that response will only be received by servers to which DHCP messages
   are relayed, a malicious server could send a Reconfigure message to a
   client, followed (after an appropriate delay) by a Reply message that
   would be accepted by the client.  Thus, a malicious server that is
   not on the network path between the client and the server may still
   be able to mount a Reconfigure attack on a client.  The use of
   transaction IDs that are cryptographically sound and cannot easily be
   predicted will also reduce the probability that such an attack will
   be successful.

   The threat specific to a DHCP server is an invalid client
   masquerading as a valid client.  The motivation for this may be for
   theft of service, or to circumvent auditing for any number of
   nefarious purposes.

   The threat common to both the client and the server is the resource
   "denial of service" (DoS) attack.  These attacks typically involve
   the exhaustion of available addresses, or the exhaustion of CPU or
   network bandwidth, and are present anytime there is a shared
   resource.

   In the case where relay agents add additional options to Relay
   Forward messages, the messages exchanged between relay agents and
   servers may be used to mount a "man in the middle" or denial of
   service attack.

   This threat model does not consider the privacy of the contents of
   DHCP messages to be important.  DHCP is not used to exchange
   authentication or configuration information that must be kept secret
   from other networks nodes.






Droms, et al.               Standards Track                    [Page 90]

RFC 3315                     DHCP for IPv6                     July 2003


   DHCP authentication provides for authentication of the identity of
   DHCP clients and servers, and for the integrity of messages delivered
   between DHCP clients and servers.  DHCP authentication does not
   provide any privacy for the contents of DHCP messages.

   The Delayed Authentication protocol described in section 21.4 uses a
   secret key that is shared between a client and a server.  The use of
   a "DHCP realm" in the shared key allows identification of
   administrative domains so that a client can select the appropriate
   key or keys when roaming between administrative domains.  However,
   the Delayed Authentication protocol does not define any mechanism for
   sharing of keys, so a client may require separate keys for each
   administrative domain it encounters.  The use of shared keys may not
   scale well and does not provide for repudiation of compromised keys.
   This protocol is focused on solving the intradomain problem where the
   out-of-band exchange of a shared key is feasible.

   Because of the opportunity for attack through the Reconfigure
   message, a DHCP client MUST discard any Reconfigure message that does
   not include authentication or that does not pass the validation
   process for the authentication protocol.

   The Reconfigure Key protocol described in section 21.5 provides
   protection against the use of a Reconfigure message by a malicious
   DHCP server to mount a denial of service or man-in-the-middle attack
   on a client.  This protocol can be compromised by an attacker that
   can intercept the initial message in which the DHCP server sends the
   key to the client.

   Communication between a server and a relay agent, and communication
   between relay agents, can be secured through the use of IPSec, as
   described in section 21.1.  The use of manual configuration and
   installation of static keys are acceptable in this instance because
   relay agents and the server will belong to the same administrative
   domain and the relay agents will require other specific configuration
   (for example, configuration of the DHCP server address) as well as
   the IPSec configuration.

