17.1.2. Transmission of Solicit Messages

   The first Solicit message from the client on the interface MUST be
   delayed by a random amount of time between 0 and SOL_MAX_DELAY.  In
   the case of a Solicit message transmitted when DHCP is initiated by
   IPv6 Neighbor Discovery, the delay gives the amount of time to wait
   after IPv6 Neighbor Discovery causes the client to invoke the
   stateful address autoconfiguration protocol (see section 5.5.3 of RFC
   2462).  This random delay desynchronizes clients which start at the
   same time (for example, after a power outage).

   The client transmits the message according to section 14, using the
   following parameters:

      IRT   SOL_TIMEOUT

      MRT   SOL_MAX_RT

      MRC   0

      MRD   0






Droms, et al.               Standards Track                    [Page 33]

RFC 3315                     DHCP for IPv6                     July 2003


   If the client has included a Rapid Commit option in its Solicit
   message, the client terminates the waiting process as soon as a Reply
   message with a Rapid Commit option is received.

   If the client is waiting for an Advertise message, the mechanism in
   section 14 is modified as follows for use in the transmission of
   Solicit messages.  The message exchange is not terminated by the
   receipt of an Advertise before the first RT has elapsed.  Rather, the
   client collects Advertise messages until the first RT has elapsed.
   Also, the first RT MUST be selected to be strictly greater than IRT
   by choosing RAND to be strictly greater than 0.

   A client MUST collect Advertise messages for the first RT seconds,
   unless it receives an Advertise message with a preference value of
   255.  The preference value is carried in the Preference option
   (section 22.8).  Any Advertise that does not include a Preference
   option is considered to have a preference value of 0.  If the client
   receives an Advertise message that includes a Preference option with
   a preference value of 255, the client immediately begins a client-
   initiated message exchange (as described in section 18) by sending a
   Request message to the server from which the Advertise message was
   received.  If the client receives an Advertise message that does not
   include a Preference option with a preference value of 255, the
   client continues to wait until the first RT elapses.  If the first RT
   elapses and the client has received an Advertise message, the client
   SHOULD continue with a client-initiated message exchange by sending a
   Request message.

   If the client does not receive any Advertise messages before the
   first RT has elapsed, it begins the retransmission mechanism
   described in section 14.  The client terminates the retransmission
   process as soon as it receives any Advertise message, and the client
   acts on the received Advertise message without waiting for any
   additional Advertise messages.

   A DHCP client SHOULD choose MRC and MRD to be 0.  If the DHCP client
   is configured with either MRC or MRD set to a value other than 0, it
   MUST stop trying to configure the interface if the message exchange
   fails.  After the DHCP client stops trying to configure the
   interface, it SHOULD restart the reconfiguration process after some
   external event, such as user input, system restart, or when the
   client is attached to a new link.









Droms, et al.               Standards Track                    [Page 34]

RFC 3315                     DHCP for IPv6                     July 2003


