18.1.1. Creation and Transmission of Request Messages

   The client uses a Request message to populate IAs with addresses and
   obtain other configuration information.  The client includes one or
   more IA options in the Request message.  The server then returns
   addresses and other information about the IAs to the client in IA
   options in a Reply message.

   The client generates a transaction ID and inserts this value in the
   "transaction-id" field.

   The client places the identifier of the destination server in a
   Server Identifier option.

   The client MUST include a Client Identifier option to identify itself
   to the server.  The client adds any other appropriate options,
   including one or more IA options (if the client is requesting that
   the server assign it some network addresses).

   The client MUST include an Option Request option (see section 22.7)
   to indicate the options the client is interested in receiving.  The
   client MAY include options with data values as hints to the server
   about parameter values the client would like to have returned.




Droms, et al.               Standards Track                    [Page 39]

RFC 3315                     DHCP for IPv6                     July 2003


   The client includes a Reconfigure Accept option (see section 22.20)
   indicating whether or not the client is willing to accept Reconfigure
   messages from the server.

   The client transmits the message according to section 14, using the
   following parameters:

      IRT   REQ_TIMEOUT

      MRT   REQ_MAX_RT

      MRC   REQ_MAX_RC

      MRD   0

   If the message exchange fails, the client takes an action based on
   the client's local policy.  Examples of actions the client might take
   include:

   -  Select another server from a list of servers known to the client;
      for example, servers that responded with an Advertise message.

   -  Initiate the server discovery process described in section 17.

   -  Terminate the configuration process and report failure.

