18.1.3. Creation and Transmission of Renew Messages

   To extend the valid and preferred lifetimes for the addresses
   associated with an IA, the client sends a Renew message to the server
   from which the client obtained the addresses in the IA containing an
   IA option for the IA.  The client includes IA Address options in the
   IA option for the addresses associated with the IA.  The server
   determines new lifetimes for the addresses in the IA according to the
   administrative configuration of the server.  The server may also add





Droms, et al.               Standards Track                    [Page 41]

RFC 3315                     DHCP for IPv6                     July 2003


   new addresses to the IA.  The server may remove addresses from the IA
   by setting the preferred and valid lifetimes of those addresses to
   zero.

   The server controls the time at which the client contacts the server
   to extend the lifetimes on assigned addresses through the T1 and T2
   parameters assigned to an IA.

   At time T1 for an IA, the client initiates a Renew/Reply message
   exchange to extend the lifetimes on any addresses in the IA.  The
   client includes an IA option with all addresses currently assigned to
   the IA in its Renew message.

   If T1 or T2 is set to 0 by the server (for an IA_NA) or there are no
   T1 or T2 times (for an IA_TA), the client may send a Renew or Rebind
   message, respectively, at the client's discretion.

   The client sets the "msg-type" field to RENEW.  The client generates
   a transaction ID and inserts this value in the "transaction-id"
   field.

   The client places the identifier of the destination server in a
   Server Identifier option.

   The client MUST include a Client Identifier option to identify itself
   to the server.  The client adds any appropriate options, including
   one or more IA options.  The client MUST include the list of
   addresses the client currently has associated with the IAs in the
   Renew message.

   The client MUST include an Option Request option (see section 22.7)
   to indicate the options the client is interested in receiving.  The
   client MAY include options with data values as hints to the server
   about parameter values the client would like to have returned.

   The client transmits the message according to section 14, using the
   following parameters:

      IRT   REN_TIMEOUT

      MRT   REN_MAX_RT

      MRC   0

      MRD   Remaining time until T2






Droms, et al.               Standards Track                    [Page 42]

RFC 3315                     DHCP for IPv6                     July 2003


   The message exchange is terminated when time T2 is reached (see
   section 18.1.4), at which time the client begins a Rebind message
   exchange.

