18.1.6. Creation and Transmission of Release Messages

   To release one or more addresses, a client sends a Release message to
   the server.

   The client sets the "msg-type" field to RELEASE.  The client
   generates a transaction ID and places this value in the
   "transaction-id" field.




Droms, et al.               Standards Track                    [Page 44]

RFC 3315                     DHCP for IPv6                     July 2003


   The client places the identifier of the server that allocated the
   address(es) in a Server Identifier option.

   The client MUST include a Client Identifier option to identify itself
   to the server.  The client includes options containing the IAs for
   the addresses it is releasing in the "options" field.  The addresses
   to be released MUST be included in the IAs.  Any addresses for the
   IAs the client wishes to continue to use MUST NOT be added to the
   IAs.

   The client MUST NOT use any of the addresses it is releasing as the
   source address in the Release message or in any subsequently
   transmitted message.

   Because Release messages may be lost, the client should retransmit
   the Release if no Reply is received.  However, there are scenarios
   where the client may not wish to wait for the normal retransmission
   timeout before giving up (e.g., on power down).  Implementations
   SHOULD retransmit one or more times, but MAY choose to terminate the
   retransmission procedure early.

   The client transmits the message according to section 14, using the
   following parameters:

      IRT   REL_TIMEOUT

      MRT   0

      MRC   REL_MAX_RC

      MRD   0

   The client MUST stop using all of the addresses being released as
   soon as the client begins the Release message exchange process.  If
   addresses are released but the Reply from a DHCP server is lost, the
   client will retransmit the Release message, and the server may
   respond with a Reply indicating a status of NoBinding.  Therefore,
   the client does not treat a Reply message with a status of NoBinding
   in a Release message exchange as if it indicates an error.

   Note that if the client fails to release the addresses, each address
   assigned to the IA will be reclaimed by the server when the valid
   lifetime of that address expires.








Droms, et al.               Standards Track                    [Page 45]

RFC 3315                     DHCP for IPv6                     July 2003


