18.1.8. Receipt of Reply Messages

   Upon the receipt of a valid Reply message in response to a Solicit
   (with a Rapid Commit option), Request, Confirm, Renew, Rebind or
   Information-request message, the client extracts the configuration





Droms, et al.               Standards Track                    [Page 46]

RFC 3315                     DHCP for IPv6                     July 2003


   information contained in the Reply.  The client MAY choose to report
   any status code or message from the status code option in the Reply
   message.

   The client SHOULD perform duplicate address detection [17] on each of
   the addresses in any IAs it receives in the Reply message before
   using that address for traffic.  If any of the addresses are found to
   be in use on the link, the client sends a Decline message to the
   server as described in section 18.1.7.

   If the Reply was received in response to a Solicit (with a Rapid
   Commit option), Request, Renew or Rebind message, the client updates
   the information it has recorded about IAs from the IA options
   contained in the Reply message:

   -  Record T1 and T2 times.

   -  Add any new addresses in the IA option to the IA as recorded by
      the client.

   -  Update lifetimes for any addresses in the IA option that the
      client already has recorded in the IA.

   -  Discard any addresses from the IA, as recorded by the client, that
      have a valid lifetime of 0 in the IA Address option.

   -  Leave unchanged any information about addresses the client has
      recorded in the IA but that were not included in the IA from the
      server.

   Management of the specific configuration information is detailed in
   the definition of each option in section 22.

   If the client receives a Reply message with a Status Code containing
   UnspecFail, the server is indicating that it was unable to process
   the message due to an unspecified failure condition.  If the client
   retransmits the original message to the same server to retry the
   desired operation, the client MUST limit the rate at which it
   retransmits the message and limit the duration of the time during
   which it retransmits the message.

   When the client receives a Reply message with a Status Code option
   with the value UseMulticast, the client records the receipt of the
   message and sends subsequent messages to the server through the
   interface on which the message was received using multicast.  The
   client resends the original message using multicast.





Droms, et al.               Standards Track                    [Page 47]

RFC 3315                     DHCP for IPv6                     July 2003


   When the client receives a NotOnLink status from the server in
   response to a Confirm message, the client performs DHCP server
   solicitation, as described in section 17, and client-initiated
   configuration as described in section 18.  If the client receives any
   Reply messages that do not indicate a NotOnLink status, the client
   can use the addresses in the IA and ignore any messages that indicate
   a NotOnLink status.

   When the client receives a NotOnLink status from the server in
   response to a Request, the client can either re-issue the Request
   without specifying any addresses or restart the DHCP server discovery
   process (see section 17).

   The client examines the status code in each IA individually.  If the
   status code is NoAddrsAvail, the client has received no usable
   addresses in the IA and may choose to try obtaining addresses for the
   IA from another server.  The client uses addresses and other
   information from any IAs that do not contain a Status Code option
   with the NoAddrsAvail code.  If the client receives no addresses in
   any of the IAs, it may either try another server (perhaps restarting
   the DHCP server discovery process) or use the Information-request
   message to obtain other configuration information only.

   When the client receives a Reply message in response to a Renew or
   Rebind message, the client examines each IA independently.  For each
   IA in the original Renew or Rebind message, the client:

   -  sends a Request message if the IA contained a Status Code option
      with the NoBinding status (and does not send any additional
      Renew/Rebind messages)

   -  sends a Renew/Rebind if the IA is not in the Reply message

   -  otherwise accepts the information in the IA

   When the client receives a valid Reply message in response to a
   Release message, the client considers the Release event completed,
   regardless of the Status Code option(s) returned by the server.

   When the client receives a valid Reply message in response to a
   Decline message, the client considers the Decline event completed,
   regardless of the Status Code option(s) returned by the server.

