18.2.1. Receipt of Request Messages

   When the server receives a Request message via unicast from a client
   to which the server has not sent a unicast option, the server
   discards the Request message and responds with a Reply message
   containing a Status Code option with the value UseMulticast, a Server
   Identifier option containing the server's DUID, the Client Identifier
   option from the client message, and no other options.

   When the server receives a valid Request message, the server creates
   the bindings for that client according to the server's policy and
   configuration information and records the IAs and other information
   requested by the client.

   The server constructs a Reply message by setting the "msg-type" field
   to REPLY, and copying the transaction ID from the Request message
   into the transaction-id field.

   The server MUST include a Server Identifier option containing the
   server's DUID and the Client Identifier option from the Request
   message in the Reply message.

   If the server finds that the prefix on one or more IP addresses in
   any IA in the message from the client is not appropriate for the link
   to which the client is connected, the server MUST return the IA to
   the client with a Status Code option with the value NotOnLink.

   If the server cannot assign any addresses to an IA in the message
   from the client, the server MUST include the IA in the Reply message
   with no addresses in the IA and a Status Code option in the IA
   containing status code NoAddrsAvail.





Droms, et al.               Standards Track                    [Page 49]

RFC 3315                     DHCP for IPv6                     July 2003


   For any IAs to which the server can assign addresses, the server
   includes the IA with addresses and other configuration parameters,
   and records the IA as a new client binding.

   The server includes a Reconfigure Accept option if the server wants
   to require that the client accept Reconfigure messages.

   The server includes other options containing configuration
   information to be returned to the client as described in section
   18.2.

   If the server finds that the client has included an IA in the Request
   message for which the server already has a binding that associates
   the IA with the client, the client has resent a Request message for
   which it did not receive a Reply message.  The server either resends
   a previously cached Reply message or sends a new Reply message.

