19.1.1. Creation and Transmission of Reconfigure Messages

   The server sets the "msg-type" field to RECONFIGURE.  The server sets
   the transaction-id field to 0.  The server includes a Server
   Identifier option containing its DUID and a Client Identifier option
   containing the client's DUID in the Reconfigure message.

   The server MAY include an Option Request option to inform the client
   of what information has been changed or new information that has been
   added.  In particular, the server specifies the IA option in the
   Option Request option if the server wants the client to obtain new
   address information.  If the server identifies the IA option in the
   Option Request option, the server MUST include an IA option that
   contains no other sub-options to identify each IA that is to be
   reconfigured on the client.

   Because of the risk of denial of service attacks against DHCP
   clients, the use of a security mechanism is mandated in Reconfigure
   messages.  The server MUST use DHCP authentication in the Reconfigure
   message.

   The server MUST include a Reconfigure Message option (defined in
   section 22.19) to select whether the client responds with a Renew
   message or an Information-Request message.

   The server MUST NOT include any other options in the Reconfigure
   except as specifically allowed in the definition of individual
   options.

   A server sends each Reconfigure message to a single DHCP client,
   using an IPv6 unicast address of sufficient scope belonging to the
   DHCP client.  If the server does not have an address to which it can
   send the Reconfigure message directly to the client, the server uses
   a Relay-reply message (as described in section 20.3) to send the
   Reconfigure message to a relay agent that will relay the message to
   the client.  The server may obtain the address of the client (and the





Droms, et al.               Standards Track                    [Page 55]

RFC 3315                     DHCP for IPv6                     July 2003


   appropriate relay agent, if required) through the information the
   server has about clients that have been in contact with the server,
   or through some external agent.

   To reconfigure more than one client, the server unicasts a separate
   message to each client.  The server may initiate the reconfiguration
   of multiple clients concurrently; for example, a server may send a
   Reconfigure message to additional clients while previous
   reconfiguration message exchanges are still in progress.

   The Reconfigure message causes the client to initiate a Renew/Reply
   or Information-request/Reply message exchange with the server.  The
   server interprets the receipt of a Renew or Information-request
   message (whichever was specified in the original Reconfigure message)
   from the client as satisfying the Reconfigure message request.

