20.3. Construction of Relay-reply Messages

   A server uses a Relay-reply message to return a response to a client
   if the original message from the client was relayed to the server in
   a Relay-forward message or to send a Reconfigure message to a client
   if the server does not have an address it can use to send the message
   directly to the client.

   A response to the client MUST be relayed through the same relay
   agents as the original client message.  The server causes this to
   happen by creating a Relay-reply message that includes a Relay
   Message option containing the message for the next relay agent in the
   return path to the client.  The contained Relay-reply message
   contains another Relay Message option to be sent to the next relay
   agent, and so on.  The server must record the contents of the
   peer-address fields in the received message so it can construct the
   appropriate Relay-reply message carrying the response from the
   server.








Droms, et al.               Standards Track                    [Page 60]

RFC 3315                     DHCP for IPv6                     July 2003


   For example, if client C sent a message that was relayed by relay
   agent A to relay agent B and then to the server, the server would
   send the following Relay-Reply message to relay agent B:

   msg-type:       RELAY-REPLY
   hop-count:      1
   link-address:   0
   peer-address:   A
   Relay Message option, containing:
     msg-type:     RELAY-REPLY
     hop-count:    0
     link-address: address from link to which C is attached
     peer-address: C
     Relay Message option: <response from server>

   When sending a Reconfigure message to a client through a relay agent,
   the server creates a Relay-reply message that includes a Relay
   Message option containing the Reconfigure message for the next relay
   agent in the return path to the client.  The server sets the
   peer-address field in the Relay-reply message header to the address
   of the client, and sets the link-address field as required by the
   relay agent to relay the Reconfigure message to the client.  The
   server obtains the addresses of the client and the relay agent
   through prior interaction with the client or through some external
   mechanism.

