MODESETTING(4)                          Kernel Interfaces Manual                          MODESETTING(4)

NAME
       modesetting - video driver for framebuffer device

SYNOPSIS
       Section "Device"
         Identifier "devname"
         Driver "modesetting"
         BusID  "pci:bus:dev:func"
         ...
       EndSection

DESCRIPTION
       modesetting  is an Xorg driver for KMS devices.  This driver supports TrueColor visuals at frame-
       buffer depths of 15, 16, 24, and 30. RandR 1.2 is supported for multi-head configurations. Accel-
       eration  is available through glamor for devices supporting at least OpenGL ES 2.0 or OpenGL 2.1.
       If glamor is not enabled, a shadow framebuffer is configured based on the KMS drivers' preference
       (unless  the  framebuffer  is  24  bits per pixel, in which case the shadow framebuffer is always
       used).

SUPPORTED HARDWARE
       The modesetting driver supports all hardware where a KMS driver is available.   modesetting  uses
       the Linux DRM KMS ioctls and dumb object create/map.

CONFIGURATION DETAILS
       Please refer to xorg.conf(5) for general configuration details.  This section only covers config-
       uration details specific to this driver.

       For this driver it is not required to specify modes in the screen section  of  the  config  file.
       The  modesetting driver can pick up the currently used video mode from the kernel driver and will
       use it if there are no video modes configured.

       For PCI boards you might have to add a BusID line to the Device section.  See above for a  sample
       line.

       The following driver Options are supported:

       Option "SWcursor" "boolean"
              Selects software cursor.  The default is off.

       Option "kmsdev" "string"
              The framebuffer device to use. Default: /dev/dri/card0.

       Option "ShadowFB" "boolean"
              Enable or disable use of the shadow framebuffer layer.  Default: on.

       Option "DoubleShadow" "boolean"
              Double-buffer  shadow updates. When enabled, the driver will keep two copies of the shadow
              framebuffer. When the shadow framebuffer is flushed, the  old  and  new  versions  of  the
              shadow are compared, and only tiles that have actually changed are uploaded to the device.
              This is an optimization for server-class GPUs with a remote  display  function  (typically
              VNC),  where  remote  updates  are  triggered  by any framebuffer write, so minimizing the
              amount of data uploaded is crucial.  This defaults to enabled for ASPEED and  Matrox  G200
              devices, and disabled otherwise.

       Option "AccelMethod" "string"
              One of "glamor" or "none".  Default: glamor.

       Option "PageFlip" "boolean"
              Enable DRI3 page flipping.  The default is on.

       Option "ZaphodHeads" "string"
              Specify  the RandR output(s) to use with zaphod mode for a particular driver instance.  If
              you use this option you must use this option for all instances of the driver.
              For example: Option "ZaphodHeads" "LVDS,VGA-0" will assign xrandr outputs LVDS  and  VGA-0
              to this instance of the driver.

       SEE ALSO
              Xorg(1), xorg.conf(5), Xserver(1), X(7)

AUTHORS
       Authors include: Dave Airlie

X Version 11                               xorg-server 1.20.11                            MODESETTING(4)
