2.  Introduction

   Growth in the Internet has made us aware of the need for improved
   authentication of routing information.  RIP-2 provides for
   unauthenticated service (as in classical RIP), or password
   authentication.  Both are vulnerable to passive attacks currently
   widespread in the Internet.  Well-understood security issues exist in
   routing protocols [4].  Clear text passwords, currently specified for
   use with RIP-2, are no longer considered sufficient [5].

   If authentication is disabled, then only simple misconfigurations are
   detected.  Simple passwords transmitted in the clear will further
   protect against the honest neighbor, but are useless in the general
   case.  By simply capturing information on the wire - straightforward
   even in a remote environment - a hostile process can learn the
   password and overcome the network.

   We propose that RIP-2 use an authentication algorithm, as was
   originally proposed for SNMP Version 2, augmented by a sequence
   number.  Keyed MD5 is proposed as the standard authentication
   algorithm for RIP-2, but the mechanism is intended to be algorithm-
   independent.  While this mechanism is not unbreakable (no known



Baker & Atkinson            Standards Track                     [Page 2]

RFC 2082                RIP-2 MD5 Authentication            January 1997


   mechanism is), it provides a greatly enhanced probability that a
   system being attacked will detect and ignore hostile messages.  This
   is because we transmit the output of an authentication algorithm
   (e.g., Keyed MD5) rather than the secret RIP-2 Authentication Key.
   This output is a one-way function of a message and a secret RIP-2
   Authentication Key.  This RIP-2 Authentication Key is never sent over
   the network in the clear, thus providing protection against the
   passive attacks now commonplace in the Internet.

   In this way, protection is afforded against forgery or message
   modification.  It is possible to replay a message until the sequence
   number changes, but the sequence number makes replay in the long term
   less of an issue.  The mechanism does not afford confidentiality,
   since messages stay in the clear; however, the mechanism is also
   exportable from most countries, which test a privacy algorithm would
   fail.

   Other relevant rationales for the approach are that Keyed MD5 is
   being used for OSPF cryptographic authentication, and is therefore
   present in routers already, as is some form of password management.
   A similar approach has been standardized for use in IP-layer
   authentication. [7]

