3.1.  RIP-2 PDU Format

   The basic RIP-2 message format provides for an 8 byte header with an
   array of 20 byte records as its data content.  When Keyed MD5 is
   used, the same header and content are used, except that the 16 byte
   "authentication key" field is reused to describe a "Keyed Message
   Digest" trailer.  This consists in five fields:

   (1)  The "Authentication Type" is Keyed Message Digest Algorithm,
        indicated by the value 3 (1 and 2 indicate "IP Route" and
        "Password", respectively).

   (2)  A 16 bit offset from the RIP-2 header to the MD5 digest (if no
        other trailer fields are ever defined, this value equals the
        RIP-2 Data Length).



Baker & Atkinson            Standards Track                     [Page 3]

RFC 2082                RIP-2 MD5 Authentication            January 1997


   (3)  An unsigned 8-bit field that contains the Key Identifier
        or Key-ID. This identifies the key used to create the
        Authentication Data for this RIP-2 message.  In
        implementations supporting more than one authentication
        algorithm, the Key-ID also indicates the authentication
        algorithm in use for this message. A key is associated with
        an interface.

   (4)  An unsigned 8-bit field that contains the length in octets of the
        trailing Authentication Data field.  The presence of this field
        permits other algorithms (e.g., Keyed SHA) to be substituted for
        Keyed MD5 if desired.

   (5)  An unsigned 32 bit sequence number.  The sequence number MUST be
        non-decreasing for all messages sent with the same Key ID.

   The trailer consists of the Authentication Data, which is the output
   of the Keyed Message Digest Algorithm.  When the Authentication
   Algorithm is Keyed MD5, the output data is 16 bytes; during digest
   calculation, this is effectively followed by a pad field and a length
   field as defined by RFC 1321.






























Baker & Atkinson            Standards Track                     [Page 4]

RFC 2082                RIP-2 MD5 Authentication            January 1997


