4.1.  Key Management Requirements

   It is strongly desirable that a hypothetical security breach in one
   Internet protocol not automatically compromise other Internet
   protocols.  The Authentication Key of this specification SHOULD NOT
   be stored using protocols or algorithms that have known flaws.






Baker & Atkinson            Standards Track                     [Page 7]

RFC 2082                RIP-2 MD5 Authentication            January 1997


   Implementations MUST support the storage of more than one key at the
   same time, although it is recognized that only one key will normally
   be active on an interface. They MUST associate a specific lifetime
   (i.e., date/time first valid and date/time no longer valid) and a key
   identifier with each key, and MUST support manual key distribution
   (e.g., the privileged user manually typing in the key, key lifetime,
   and key identifier on the router console).  The lifetime may be
   infinite.  If more than one algorithm is supported, then the
   implementation MUST require that the algorithm be specified for each
   key at the time the other key information is entered. Keys that are
   out of date MAY be deleted at will by the implementation without
   requiring human intervention.  Manual deletion of active keys SHOULD
   also be supported.

   It is likely that the IETF will define a standard key management
   protocol.  It is strongly desirable to use that key management
   protocol to distribute RIP-2 Authentication Keys among communicating
   RIP-2 implementations.  Such a protocol would provide scalability and
   significantly reduce the human administrative burden. The Key ID can
   be used as a hook between RIP-2 and such a future protocol.  Key
   management protocols have a long history of subtle flaws that are
   often discovered long after the protocol was first described in
   public.  To avoid having to change all RIP-2 implementations should
   such a flaw be discovered, integrated key management protocol
   techniques were deliberately omitted from this specification.

