4.2.  Key Management Procedures

   As with all security methods using keys, it is necessary to change
   the RIP-2 Authentication Key on a regular basis.  To maintain routing
   stability during such changes, implementations MUST be able to store
   and use more than one RIP-2 Authentication Key on a given interface
   at the same time.

   Each key will have its own Key Identifier, which is stored locally.
   The combination of the Key Identifier and the interface associated
   with the message uniquely identifies the Authentication Algorithm and
   RIP-2 Authentication Key in use.

   As noted above in Section 2.2.1, the party creating the RIP-2 message
   will select a valid key from the set of valid keys for that
   interface.  The receiver will use the Key Identifier and interface to
   determine which key to use for authentication of the received
   message.  More than one key may be associated with an interface at
   the same time.






Baker & Atkinson            Standards Track                     [Page 8]

RFC 2082                RIP-2 MD5 Authentication            January 1997


   Hence it is possible to have fairly smooth RIP-2 Authentication Key
   rollovers without losing legitimate RIP-2 messages because the stored
   key is incorrect and without requiring people to change all the keys
   at once.  To ensure a smooth rollover, each communicating RIP-2
   system must be updated with the new key several minutes before the
   current key will expire and several minutes before the new key
   lifetime begins. The new key should have a lifetime that starts
   several minutes before the old key expires. This gives time for each
   system to learn of the new RIP-2 Authentication Key before that key
   will be used.  It also ensures that the new key will begin being used
   and the current key will go out of use before the current key's
   lifetime expires.  For the duration of the overlap in key lifetimes,
   a system may receive messages using either key and authenticate the
   message. The Key-ID in the received message is used to select the
   appropriate key for authentication.

