3.2.1.  Message Generation

   The RIP-2 Packet is created as usual, with these exceptions:

   (1) The UDP checksum need not be calculated, but MAY be set to
       zero.

   (2) The authentication type field indicates the Keyed Message Digest
       Algorithm (3).

   (3) The authentication "password" field is reused to store a packet
       offset to the Authentication Data, a Key Identifier, the
       Authentication Data Length, and a non-decreasing sequence number.

   The value used in the sequence number is arbitrary, but two
   suggestions are the time of the message's creation or a simple
   message counter.

   The RIP-2 Authentication Key is selected by the sender based on the
   outgoing interface. Each key has a lifetime associated with it.  No
   key is ever used outside its lifetime.  Since the key's algorithm is
   related to the key itself, stored in the sender and receiver along
   with it, the Key ID effectively indicates which authentication
   algorithm is in use if the implementation supports more than one
   authentication algorithm.

   (1)  The RIP-2 header's packet length field indicates the standard
        RIP-2 portion of the packet.

   (2)  The Authentication Data Offset, Key Identifier, and
        Authentication Data size fields are filled in appropriately.

   (3)  The RIP-2 Authentication Key, which is 16 bytes long when the
        Keyed MD5 algorithm is used, is now appended to the data.  For
        all algorithms, the RIP-2 Authentication Key is never longer than
        the output of the algorithm in use.

   (4)  Trailing pad and length fields are added and the digest
        calculated using the indicated algorithm. When Keyed MD5 is the
        algorithm in use, these are calculated per RFC 1321.

   (5)  The digest is written over the RIP-2 Authentication Key.  When
        MD5 is used, this digest will be 16 bytes long.

   The trailing pad is not actually transmitted, as it is entirely
   predictable from the message length and algorithm in use.





Baker & Atkinson            Standards Track                     [Page 6]

RFC 2082                RIP-2 MD5 Authentication            January 1997


