3.1.2.  The Interface Data structure

   In OSPF for IPv6, an interface connects a router to a link.  The IPv6
   interface structure modifies the IPv4 interface structure (as defined
   in Section 9 of [Ref1]) as follows:

   Interface ID
      Every interface is assigned an Interface ID, which uniquely
      identifies the interface with the router. For example, some
      implementations may be able to use the MIB-II IfIndex ([Ref3]) as
      Interface ID. The Interface ID appears in Hello packets sent out
      the interface, the link-local-LSA originated by router for the
      attached link, and the router-LSA originated by the router-LSA for
      the associated area. It will also serve as the Link State ID for
      the network-LSA that the router will originate for the link if the
      router is elected Designated Router.

   Instance ID
      Every interface is assigned an Instance ID. This should default to
      0, and is only necessary to assign differently on those links that
      will contain multiple separate communities of OSPF Routers. For
      example, suppose that there are two communities of routers on a
      given ethernet segment that you wish to keep separate.

      The first community is given an Instance ID of 0, by assigning 0
      as the Instance ID of all its routers' interfaces to the ethernet.
      An Instance ID of 1 is assigned to the other routers' interfaces
      to the ethernet. The OSPF transmit and receive processing (see
      Section 3.2) will then keep the two communities separate.

   List of LSAs with link-local scope
      All LSAs with link-local scope and which were originated/flooded
      on the link belong to the interface structure which connects to
      the link. This includes the collection of the link's link-LSAs.




Coltun, et al.              Standards Track                    [Page 13]

RFC 2740                     OSPF for IPv6                 December 1999


   List of LSAs with unknown LS type
      All LSAs with unknown LS type and U-bit set to 0 (if unrecognized,
      treat the LSA as if it had link-local flooding scope) are kept in
      the data structure for the interface that received the LSA.

   IP interface address
      For IPv6, the IPv6 address appearing in the source of OSPF packets
      sent out the interface is almost always a link-local address. The
      one exception is for virtual links, which must use one of the
      router's own site-local or global IPv6 addresses as IP interface
      address.

   List of link prefixes
      A list of IPv6 prefixes can be configured for the attached link.
      These will be advertised by the router in link-LSAs, so that they
      can be advertised by the link's Designated Router in intra-area-
      prefix-LSAs.

   In OSPF for IPv6, each router interface has a single metric,
   representing the cost of sending packets out the interface.  In
   addition, OSPF for IPv6 relies on the IP Authentication Header (see
   [Ref19]) and the IP Encapsulating Security Payload (see [Ref20]) to
   ensure integrity and authentication/confidentiality of routing
   exchanges.  For that reason, AuType and Authentication key are not
   associated with IPv6 OSPF interfaces.

   Interface states, events, and the interface state machine remain
   unchanged from IPv4, and are documented in Sections 9.1, 9.2 and 9.3
   of [Ref1] respectively. The Designated Router and Backup Designated
   Router election algorithm also remains unchanged from the IPv4
   election in Section 9.4 of [Ref1].

