2.7.  Packet format changes

   OSPF for IPv6 runs directly over IPv6. Aside from this, all
   addressing semantics have been removed from the OSPF packet headers,
   making it essentially "network-protocol-independent".  All addressing
   information is now contained in the various LSA types only.

   In detail, changes in OSPF packet format consist of the following:

   o  The OSPF version number has been increased from 2 to 3.

   o  The Options field in Hello Packets and Database description Packet
      has been expanded to 24-bits.

   o  The Authentication and AuType fields have been removed from the
      OSPF packet header (see Section 2.6).

   o  The Hello packet now contains no address information at all, and
      includes an Interface ID which the originating router has assigned
      to uniquely identify (among its own interfaces) its interface to
      the link.  This Interface ID becomes the Netowrk-LSA's Link State
      ID, should the router become Designated-Router on the link.






Coltun, et al.              Standards Track                     [Page 7]

RFC 2740                     OSPF for IPv6                 December 1999


   o  Two option bits, the "R-bit" and the "V6-bit", have been added to
      the  Options field for processing Router-LSAs during the SPF
      calculation (see Section A.2).  If the "R-bit" is clear an OSPF
      speaker can participate in OSPF topology distribution without
      being used to forward transit traffic; this can be used in multi-
      homed hosts that want to participate in the routing protocol. The
      V6-bit specializes the R-bit; if the V6-bit is clear an OSPF
      speaker can participate in OSPF topology distribution without
      being used to forward IPv6 datagrams. If the R-bit is set and the
      V6-bit is clear, IPv6 datagrams are not forwarded but diagrams
      belonging to another protocol family may be forwarded.

   o  TheOSPF packet header now includes an "Instance ID" which allows
      multiple OSPF protocol instances to be run on a single link (see
      Section 2.4).

