2.8.  LSA format changes

   All addressing semantics have been removed from the LSA header, and
   from Router-LSAs and Network-LSAs. These two LSAs now describe the
   routing domain's topology in a network-protocol-independent manner.
   New LSAs have been added to distribute IPv6 address information, and
   data required for next hop resolution.  The names of some of IPv4's
   LSAs have been changed to be more consistent with each other.

   In detail, changes in LSA format consist of the following:

   o  The Options field has been removed from the LSA header, expanded
      to 24 bits, and moved into the body of Router-LSAs, Network-LSAs,
      Inter-Area-Router-LSAs and Link-LSAs. See Section A.2 for details.

   o  The LSA Type field has been expanded (into the former Options
      space) to 16 bits, with the upper three bits encoding flooding
      scope and the handling of unknown LSA types (see Section 2.9).

   o  Addresses in LSAs are now expressed as [prefix, prefix length]
      instead of [address, mask] (see Section A.4.1). The default route
      is expressed as a prefix with length 0.

   o  The Router and Network LSAs now have no address information, and
      are network-protocol-independent.

   o  Router interface information may be spread across multiple Router
      LSAs. Receivers must concatenate all the Router-LSAs originated by
      a given router when running the SPF calculation.






Coltun, et al.              Standards Track                     [Page 8]

RFC 2740                     OSPF for IPv6                 December 1999


   o  A new LSA called the Link-LSA has been introduced. The LSAs have
      local-link flooding scope; they are never flooded beyond the link
      that they are associated with. Link-LSAs have three purposes: 1)
      they provide the router's link-local address to all other routers
      attached to the link, 2) they inform other routers attached to the
      link of a list of IPv6 prefixes to associate with the link and 3)
      they allow the router to assert a collection of Options bits to
      associate with the Network-LSA that will be originated for the
      link.  See Section A.4.8 for details.

      In IPv4, the router-LSA carries a router's IPv4 interface
      addresses, the IPv4 equivalent of link-local addresses.  These are
      only used when calculating next hops during the OSPF routing
      calculation (see Section 16.1.1 of [Ref1]), so they do not need to
      be flooded past the local link; hence using link-LSAs to
      distribute these addresses is more efficient. Note that link-local
      addresses cannot be learned through the reception of Hellos in all
      cases: on NBMA links next hop routers do not necessarily exchange
      hellos, but rather learn of each other's existence by way of the
      Designated Router.

   o  The Options field in the Network LSA is set to the logical OR of
      the Options that each router on the link advertises in its Link-
      LSA.

   o  Type-3 summary-LSAs have been renamed "Inter-Area-Prefix-LSAs".
      Type-4 summary LSAs have been renamed "Inter-Area-Router-LSAs".

   o  The Link State ID in Inter-Area-Prefix-LSAs, Inter-Area-Router-
      LSAs and AS-external-LSAs has lost its addressing semantics, and
      now serves solely to identify individual pieces of the Link State
      Database. All addresses or Router IDs that were formerly expressed
      by the Link State ID are now carried in the LSA bodies.

   o  Network-LSAs and Link-LSAs are the only LSAs whose Link State ID
      carries additional meaning. For these LSAs, the Link State ID is
      always the Interface ID of the originating router on the link
      being described. For this reason, Network-LSAs and Link-LSAs are
      now the only LSAs whose size cannot be limited: a Network-LSA must
      list all routers connected to the link, and a Link-LSA must list
      all of a router's addresses on the link.

   o  A new LSA called the Intra-Area-Prefix-LSA has been introduced.
      This LSA carries all IPv6 prefix information that in IPv4 is
      included in Router-LSAs and Network-LSAs.  See Section A.4.9 for
      details.





Coltun, et al.              Standards Track                     [Page 9]

RFC 2740                     OSPF for IPv6                 December 1999


   o  Inclusion of a forwarding address in AS-external-LSAs is now
      optional, as is the inclusion of an external route tag (see
      [Ref5]). In addition, AS-external-LSAs can now reference another
      LSA, for inclusion of additional route attributes that are outside
      the scope of the OSPF protocol itself. For example, this can be
      used to attach BGP path attributes to external routes as proposed
      in [Ref10].

