3.  Implementation details

   When going from IPv4 to IPv6, the basic OSPF mechanisms remain
   unchanged from those documented in [Ref1]. These mechanisms are
   briefly outlined in Section 4 of [Ref1]. Both IPv6 and IPv4 have a
   link-state database composed of LSAs and synchronized between
   adjacent routers. Initial synchronization is performed through the
   Database Exchange process, through the exchange of Database
   Description, Link State Request and Link State Update packets.
   Thereafter database synchronization is maintained via flooding,
   utilizing Link State Update and Link State Acknowledgment packets.
   Both IPv6 and IPv4 use OSPF Hello Packets to discover and maintain
   neighbor relationships, and to elect Designated Routers and Backup
   Designated Routers on broadcast and NBMA links. The decision as to
   which neighbor relationships become adjacencies, along with the basic
   ideas behind inter-area routing, importing external information in
   AS-external-LSAs and the various routing calculations are also the
   same.

   In particular, the following IPv4 OSPF functionality described in
   [Ref1] remains completely unchanged for IPv6:

   o  Both IPv4 and IPv6 use OSPF packet types described in Section 4.3
      of [Ref1], namely: Hello, Database Description, Link State
      Request, Link State Update and Link State Acknowledgment packets.
      While in some cases (e.g., Hello packets) their format has changed
      somewhat, the functions of the various packet types remains the
      same.

   o  The system requirements for an OSPF implementation remain
      unchanged, although OSPF for IPv6 requires an IPv6 protocol stack
      (from the network layer on down) since it runs directly over the
      IPv6 network layer.



Coltun, et al.              Standards Track                    [Page 11]

RFC 2740                     OSPF for IPv6                 December 1999


   o  The discovery and maintenance of neighbor relationships, and the
      selection and establishment of adjacencies remain the same. This
      includes election of the Designated Router and Backup Designated
      Router on broadcast and NBMA links. These mechanisms are described
      in Sections 7, 7.1, 7.2, 7.3, 7.4 and 7.5 of [Ref1].

   o  The link types (or equivalently, interface types) supported by
      OSPF remain unchanged, namely: point-to-point, broadcast, NBMA,
      Point-to-MultiPoint and virtual links.

   o  The interface state machine, including the list of OSPF interface
      states and events, and the Designated Router and Backup Designated
      Router election algorithm, remain unchanged.  These are described
      in Sections 9.1, 9.2, 9.3 and 9.4 of [Ref1].

   o  The neighbor state machine, including the list of OSPF neighbor
      states and events, remain unchanged. These are described in
      Sections 10.1, 10.2, 10.3 and 10.4 of [Ref1].

   o  Aging of the link-state database, as well as flushing LSAs from
      the routing domain through the premature aging process, remains
      unchanged from the description in Sections 14 and 14.1 of [Ref1].

   However, some OSPF protocol mechanisms have changed, as outlined in
   Section 2 above. These changes are explained in detail in the
   following subsections, making references to the appropriate sections
   of [Ref1].

   The following subsections provide a recipe for turning an IPv4 OSPF
   implementation into an IPv6 OSPF implementation.

