3.2.2.  Receiving protocol packets

   Whenever an OSPF protocol packet is received by the router it is
   marked with the interface it was received on.  For routers that have
   virtual links configured, it may not be immediately obvious which
   interface to associate the packet with.  For example, consider the
   Router RT11 depicted in Figure 6 of [Ref1].  If RT11 receives an OSPF
   protocol packet on its interface to Network N8, it may want to
   associate the packet with the interface to Area 2, or with the
   virtual link to Router RT10 (which is part of the backbone).      In
   the following, we assume that the packet is initially associated with
   the non-virtual link.

   In order for the packet to be passed to OSPF for processing, the
   following tests must be performed on the encapsulating IPv6 headers:

   o  The packet's IP destination address must be one of the IPv6
      unicast addresses associated with the receiving interface (this
      includes link-local addresses), or one of the IP multicast
      addresses AllSPFRouters or AllDRouters.



Coltun, et al.              Standards Track                    [Page 17]

RFC 2740                     OSPF for IPv6                 December 1999


   o  The Next Header field of the immediately encapsulating IPv6 header
      must specify the OSPF protocol (89).

   o  Any encapsulating IP Authentication Headers (see [Ref19]) and the
      IP Encapsulating Security Payloads (see [Ref20]) must be processed
      and/or verified to ensure integrity and
      authentication/confidentiality of OSPF routing exchanges.

   o  Locally originated packets should not be passed on to OSPF.  That
      is, the source IPv6 address should be examined to make sure this
      is not a multicast packet that the router itself generated.

   After processing the encapsulating IPv6 headers, the OSPF packet
   header is processed.  The fields specified in the header must match
   those configured for the receiving interface.  If they do not, the
   packet should be discarded:

   o  The version number field must specify protocol version 3.

   o  The standard IPv6 16-bit one's complement checksum, covering the
      entire OSPF packet and prepended IPv6 pseudo-header, must be
      verified (see Section A.3.1).

   o  The Area ID found in the OSPF header must be verified.  If both of
      the following cases fail, the packet should be discarded.  The
      Area ID specified in the header must either:

      (1)   Match the Area ID of the receiving interface. In
            this case, unlike for IPv4, the IPv6 source
            address is not restricted to lie on the same IP
            subnet as the receiving interface. IPv6 OSPF runs
            per-link, instead of per-IP-subnet.

      (2)   Indicate the backbone.  In this case, the packet
            has been sent over a virtual link.  The receiving
            router must be an area border router, and the
            Router ID specified in the packet (the source
            router) must be the other end of a configured
            virtual link.  The receiving interface must also
            attach to the virtual link's configured Transit
            area.  If all of these checks succeed, the packet
            is accepted and is from now on associated with
            the virtual link (and the backbone area).

   o  The Instance ID specified in the OSPF header must match the
      receiving interface's Instance ID.





Coltun, et al.              Standards Track                    [Page 18]

RFC 2740                     OSPF for IPv6                 December 1999


   o  Packets whose IP destination is AllDRouters should only be
      accepted if the state of the receiving interface is DR or Backup
      (see Section 9.1).

   After header processing, the packet is further processed according to
   its OSPF packet type.  OSPF packet types and functions are the same
   for both IPv4 and IPv6.

   If the packet type is Hello, it should then be further processed by
   the Hello Protocol.  All other packet types are sent/received only on
   adjacencies.  This means that the packet must have been sent by one
   of the router's active neighbors. The neighbor is identified by the
   Router ID appearing the the received packet's OSPF header. Packets
   not matching any active neighbor are discarded.

   The receive processing of Database Description Packets, Link State
   Request Packets and Link State Acknowledgment Packets remains
   unchanged from the IPv4 procedures documented in Sections 10.6, 10.7
   and 13.7 of [Ref1] respectively. The receiving of Hello Packets is
   documented in Section 3.2.2.1, and the receiving of Link State Update
   Packets is documented in Section 3.5.1.

