3.3.  The Routing table Structure

   The routing table used by OSPF for IPv4 is defined in Section 11 of
   [Ref1]. For IPv6 there are analogous routing table entries: there are
   routing table entries for IPv6 address prefixes, and also for AS
   boundary routers. The latter routing table entries are only used to
   hold intermediate results during the routing table build process (see
   Section 3.8).




Coltun, et al.              Standards Track                    [Page 19]

RFC 2740                     OSPF for IPv6                 December 1999


   Also, to hold the intermediate results during the shortest-path
   calculation for each area, there is a separate routing table for each
   area holding the following entries:

   o  An entry for each router in the area. Routers are identified by
      their OSPF router ID. These routing table entries hold the set of
      shortest paths through a given area to a given router, which in
      turn allows calculation of paths to the IPv6 prefixes advertised
      by that router in Intra-area-prefix-LSAs. If the router is also an
      area-border router, these entries are also used to calculate paths
      for inter-area address prefixes. If in addition the router is the
      other endpoint of a virtual link, the routing table entry
      describes the cost and viability of the virtual link.

   o  An entry for each transit link in the area. Transit links have
      associated network-LSAs. Both the transit link and the network-LSA
      are identified by a combination of the Designated Router's
      Interface ID on the link and the Designated Router's OSPF Router
      ID. These routing table entries allow later calculation of paths
      to IP prefixes advertised for the transit link in intra-area-
      prefix-LSAs.

   The fields in the IPv4 OSPF routing table (see Section 11 of [Ref1])
   remain valid for IPv6: Optional capabilities (routers only), path
   type, cost, type 2 cost, link state origin, and for each of the equal
   cost paths to the destination, the next hop and advertising router.

   For IPv6, the link-state origin field in the routing table entry is
   the router-LSA or network-LSA that has directly or indirectly
   produced the routing table entry. For example, if the routing table
   entry describes a route to an IPv6 prefix, the link state origin is
   the router-LSA or network-LSA that is listed in the body of the
   intra-area-prefix-LSA that has produced the route (see Section
   A.4.9).

