3.4.3.1.  Router-LSAs

   The LS type of a router-LSA is set to the value 0x2001.  Router-LSAs
   have area flooding scope. A router may originate one or more router-
   LSAs for a given area. Each router-LSA contains an integral number of
   interface descriptions; taken together, the collection of router-LSAs
   originated by the router for an area describes the collected states
   of all the router's interfaces to the area. When multiple router-LSAs
   are used, they are distinguished by their Link State ID fields.

   The Options field in the router-LSA should be coded as follows. The
   V6-bit should be set. The E-bit should be clear if and only if the
   attached area is an OSPF stub area. The MC-bit should be set if and
   only if the router is running MOSPF (see [Ref8]). The N-bit should be
   set if and only if the attached area is an OSPF NSSA area.  The R-bit
   should be set. The DC-bit should be set if and only if the router can
   correctly process the DoNotAge bit when it appears in the LS age
   field of LSAs (see [Ref11]). All unrecognized bits in the Options
   field should be cleared

   To the left of the Options field, the router capability bits V, E and
   B should be coded according to Section 12.4.1 of [Ref1]. Bit W should
   be coded according to [Ref8].

   Each of the router's interfaces to the area are then described by
   appending "link descriptions" to the router-LSA. Each link
   description is 16 bytes long, consisting of 5 fields: (link) Type,
   Metric, Interface ID, Neighbor Interface ID and Neighbor Router ID
   (see Section A.4.3). Interfaces in state "Down" or "Loopback" are not
   described (although looped back interfaces can contribute prefixes to
   Intra-Area-Prefix-LSAs). Nor are interfaces without any full
   adjacencies described. All other interfaces to the area add zero, one
   or more link descriptions, the number and content of which depend on
   the interface type. Within each link description, the Metric field is
   always set the interface's output cost and the Interface ID field is
   set to the interface's OSPF Interface ID.

   Point-to-point interfaces
      If the neighboring router is fully adjacent, add a Type 1 link
      description (point-to-point). The Neighbor Interface ID field is
      set to the Interface ID advertised by the neighbor in its Hello
      packets, and the Neighbor Router ID field is set to the neighbor's
      Router ID.








Coltun, et al.              Standards Track                    [Page 25]

RFC 2740                     OSPF for IPv6                 December 1999


   Broadcast and NBMA interfaces
      If the router is fully adjacent to the link's Designated Router,
      or if the router itself is Designated Router and is fully adjacent
      to at least one other router, add a single Type 2 link description
      (transit network). The Neighbor Interface ID field is set to the
      Interface ID advertised by the Designated Router in its Hello
      packets, and the Neighbor Router ID field is set to the Designated
      Router's Router ID.

   Virtual links
      If the neighboring router is fully adjacent, add a Type 4 link
      description (virtual). The Neighbor Interface ID field is set to
      the Interface ID advertised by the neighbor in its Hello packets,
      and the Neighbor Router ID field is set to the neighbor's Router
      ID. Note that the output cost of a virtual link is calculated
      during the routing table calculation (see Section 3.7).

   Point-to-MultiPoint interfaces
      For each fully adjacent neighbor associated with the interface,
      add a separate Type 1 link description (point-to-point) with
      Neighbor Interface ID field set to the Interface ID advertised by
      the neighbor in its Hello packets, and Neighbor Router ID field
      set to the neighbor's Router ID.

   As an example, consider the router-LSA that router RT3 would
   originate for Area 1 in Figure 1. Only a single interface must be
   described, namely that which connects to the transit network N3. It
   assumes that RT4 has been elected Designated Router of Network N3.

     ; RT3's router-LSA for Area 1

     LS age = 0                     ;newly (re)originated
     LS type = 0x2001               ;router-LSA
     Link State ID = 0              ;first fragment
     Advertising Router = 192.1.1.3 ;RT3's Router ID
     bit E = 0                      ;not an AS boundary router
     bit B = 1                      ;area border router
     Options = (V6-bit|E-bit|R-bit)
         Type = 2                     ;connects to N3
         Metric = 1            ;cost to N3
         Interface ID = 1             ;RT3's Interface ID on N3
         Neighbor Interface ID = 1    ;RT4's Interface ID on N3
         Neighbor Router ID = 192.1.1.4 ; RT4's Router ID

   If for example another router was added to Network N4, RT3 would have
   to advertise a second link description for its connection to (the now
   transit) network N4. This could be accomplished by reoriginating the
   above router-LSA, this time with two link descriptions. Or, a



Coltun, et al.              Standards Track                    [Page 26]

RFC 2740                     OSPF for IPv6                 December 1999


   separate router-LSA could be originated with a separate Link State ID
   (e.g., using a Link State ID of 1) to describe the connection to N4.

   Host routes no longer appear in the router-LSA, but are instead
   included in intra-area-prefix-LSAs.

