3.4.3.7.  Intra-Area-Prefix-LSAs

   The LS type of an intra-area-prefix-LSA is set to the value 0x2009.
   Intra-area-prefix-LSAs have area flooding scope. An intra-area-
   prefix-LSA has one of two functions. It associates a list of IPv6
   address prefixes with a transit network link by referencing a
   network- LSA, or associates a list of IPv6 address prefixes with a
   router by referencing a router-LSA. A stub link's prefixes are
   associated with its attached router.

   A router may originate multiple intra-area-prefix-LSAs for a given
   area, distinguished by their Link State ID fields. Each intra-area-
   prefix-LSA contains an integral number of prefix descriptions.

   A link's Designated Router originates one or more intra-area-prefix-
   LSAs to advertise the link's prefixes throughout the area. For a link
   L, L's Designated Router builds an intra-area-prefix-LSA in the
   following fashion:

   o  In order to indicate that the prefixes are to be associated with
      the Link L, the fields Referenced LS type, Referenced Link State
      ID, and Referenced

      Advertising Router are set to the corresponding fields in Link L's
      network-LSA (namely LS type, Link State ID, and Advertising Router
      respectively). This means that Referenced LS Type is set to
      0x2002, Referenced Link State ID is set to the Designated Router's
      Interface ID on Link L, and Referenced Advertising Router is set
      to the Designated Router's Router ID.

   o  Each Link-LSA associated with Link L is examined (these are in the
      Designated Router's interface structure for Link L). If the Link-
      LSA's Advertising Router is fully adjacent to the Designated
      Router, the list of prefixes in the Link-LSA is copied into the



Coltun, et al.              Standards Track                    [Page 32]

RFC 2740                     OSPF for IPv6                 December 1999


      intra-area-prefix-LSA that is being built.  Prefixes having the
      NU-bit and/or LA-bit set in their Options field should not be
      copied, nor should link-local addresses be copied.  Each prefix is
      described by the PrefixLength, PrefixOptions, and Address Prefix
      fields. Multiple prefixes having the same PrefixLength and Address
      Prefix are considered to be duplicates; in this case their Prefix
      Options fields should be merged by logically OR'ing the fields
      together, and a single resulting prefix should be copied into the
      intra-area-prefix-LSA. The Metric field for all prefixes is set to
      0.

   o  The "# prefixes" field is set to the number of prefixes that the
      router has copied into the LSA. If necessary, the list of prefixes
      can be spread across multiple intra-area-prefix-LSAs in order to
      keep the LSA size small.

      A router builds an intra-area-prefix-LSA to advertise its own
      prefixes, and those of its attached stub links.  A Router RTX
      would build its intra-area-prefix-LSA in the following fashion:

   o  In order to indicate that the prefixes are to be associated with
      the Router RTX itself, RTX sets Referenced LS type to 0x2001,
      Referenced Link State ID to 0, and Referenced Advertising Router
      to RTX's own Router ID.

   o  Router RTX examines its list of interfaces to the area. If the
      interface is in state Down, its prefixes are not included. If the
      interface has been reported in RTX's router-LSA as a Type 2 link
      description (link to transit network), its prefixes are not
      included (they will be included in the intra-area-prefix-LSA for
      the link instead). If the interface type is Point-to-MultiPoint,
      or the interface is in state Loopback, or the interface connects
      to a point-to-point link which has not been assigned a prefix,
      then the site-local and global scope IPv6 addresses associated
      with the interface (if any) are copied into the intra-area-
      prefix-LSA, setting the LA-bit in the PrefixOptions field, and
      setting the PrefixLength to 128 and the Metric to 0.  Otherwise,
      the list of site-local and global prefixes configured in RTX for
      the link are copied into the intra-area-prefix-LSA by specifying
      the PrefixLength, PrefixOptions, and Address Prefix fields. The
      Metric field for each of these prefixes is set to the interface's
      output cost.

   o  RTX adds the IPv6 prefixes for any directly attached hosts
      belonging to the area (see Section C.7) to the intra-area-prefix-
      LSA.





Coltun, et al.              Standards Track                    [Page 33]

RFC 2740                     OSPF for IPv6                 December 1999


   o  If RTX has one or more virtual links configured through the area,
      it includes one of its site-local or global scope IPv6 interface
      addresses in the LSA (if it hasn't already), setting the LA-bit in
      the PrefixOptions field, and setting the PrefixLength to 128 and
      the Metric to 0. This information will be used later in the
      routing calculation so that the two ends of the virtual link can
      discover each other's IPv6 addresses.

   o  The "# prefixes" field is set to the number of prefixes that the
      router has copied into the LSA. If necessary, the list of prefixes
      can be spread across multiple intra-area-prefix-LSAs in order to
      keep the LSA size small.

   For example, the intra-area-prefix-LSA originated by RT4 for Network
   N3 (assuming that RT4 is N3's Designated Router), and the intra-
   area-prefix-LSA originated into Area 1 by Router RT3 for its own
   prefixes, are pictured below.

     ; Intra-area-prefix-LSA
     ; for network link N3

     LS age = 0                  ;newly (re)originated
     LS type = 0x2009            ;Intra-area-prefix-LSA
     Link State ID = 5           ;or something
     Advertising Router = 192.1.1.4 ;RT4's Router ID
     # prefixes = 1
     Referenced LS type = 0x2002 ;network-LSA reference
     Referenced Link State ID = 1
     Referenced Advertising Router = 192.1.1.4
     PrefixLength = 56           ;N3's prefix
     PrefixOptions = 0
     Metric = 0
     Address Prefix = 5f00:0000:c001:0100 ;pad

     ; RT3's Intra-area-prefix-LSA
     ; for its own prefixes

     LS age = 0                  ;newly (re)originated
     LS type = 0x2009            ;Intra-area-prefix-LSA
     Link State ID = 177         ;or something
     Advertising Router = 192.1.1.3 ;RT3's Router ID
     # prefixes = 1
     Referenced LS type = 0x2001 ;router-LSA reference
     Referenced Link State ID = 0
     Referenced Advertising Router = 192.1.1.3
     PrefixLength = 56           ;N4's prefix





Coltun, et al.              Standards Track                    [Page 34]

RFC 2740                     OSPF for IPv6                 December 1999


     PrefixOptions = 0
     Metric = 2                  ;N4 interface cost
     Address Prefix = 5f00:0000:c001:0400 ;pad

   When network conditions change, it may be necessary for a router to
   move prefixes from one intra-area-prefix-LSA to another. For example,
   if the router is Designated Router for a link but the link has no
   other attached routers, the link's prefixes are advertised in an
   intra-area-prefix-LSA referring to the Designated Router's router-
   LSA.  When additional routers appear on the link, a network-LSA is
   originated for the link and the link's prefixes are moved to an
   intra-area-prefix-LSA referring to the network-LSA.

   Note that in the intra-area-prefix-LSA, the "Referenced Advertising
   Router" is always equal to the router that is originating the intra-
   area-prefix-LSA (i.e., the LSA's Advertising Router). The reason that
   the Referenced Advertising Router field appears is that, even though
   it is currently redundant, it may not be in the future. We may
   sometime want to use the same LSA format to advertise address
   prefixes for other protocol suites. In that event, the Designated
   Router may not be running the other protocol suite, and so another of
   the link's routers may need to send out the prefix-LSA. In that case,
   "Referenced Advertising Router" and "Advertising Router" would be
   different.

