3.5.2.  Sending Link State Update packets

   The sending of Link State Update packets is described in Section 13.3
   of [Ref1]. For IPv4 and IPv6, the steps for sending a Link State
   Update packet are the same (steps 1 through 5 of Section 13.3 in
   [Ref1]). However, the list of eligible interfaces out which to flood
   the LSA is different.  For IPv6, the eligible interfaces are selected
   based on the following factors:

   o  The LSA's flooding scope.

   o  For LSAs with area or link-local flooding scoping, the particular
      area or interface that the LSA is associated with.

   o  Whether the LSA has a recognized LS type.

   o  The setting of the U-bit in the LS type. If the U-bit is set to 0,
      unrecognized LS types are treated as having link-local scope. If
      set to 1, unrecognized LS types are stored and flooded as if they
      were recognized.



Coltun, et al.              Standards Track                    [Page 36]

RFC 2740                     OSPF for IPv6                 December 1999


   Choosing the set of eligible interfaces then breaks into the
   following cases:

   Case 1
      The LSA's LS type is recognized. In this case, the set of eligible
      interfaces is set depending on the flooding scope encoded in the
      LS type. If the flooding scope is "AS flooding scope", the
      eligible interfaces are all router interfaces excepting virtual
      links. In addition, AS-external-LSAs are not flooded out
      interfaces connecting to stub areas. If the flooding scope is
      "area flooding scope", the set of eligible interfaces are those
      interfaces connecting to the LSA's associated area. If the
      flooding scope is "link-local flooding scope", then there is a
      single eligible interface, the one connecting to the LSA's
      associated link (which, when the LSA is received in a Link State
      Update packet, is also the interface the LSA was received on).

   Case 2
      The LS type is unrecognized, and the U-bit in the LS Type is set
      to 0 (treat the LSA as if it had link-local flooding scope). In
      this case there is a single eligible interface, namely, the
      interface on which the LSA was received.

   Case 3
      The LS type is unrecognized, and the U-bit in the LS Type is set
      to 1 (store and flood the LSA, as if type understood). In this
      case, select the eligible interfaces based on the encoded flooding
      scope as in Case 1 above. However, in this case interfaces
      attached to stub areas are always excluded.

   A further decision must sometimes be made before adding an LSA to a
   given neighbor's link-state retransmission list (Step 1d in Section
   13.3 of [Ref1]). If the LS type is recognized by the router, but not
   by the neighbor (as can be determined by examining the Options field
   that the neighbor advertised in its Database Description packet) and
   the LSA's U-bit is set to 0, then the LSA should be added to the
   neighbor's link-state retransmission list if and only if that
   neighbor is the Designated Router or Backup Designated Router for the
   attached link. The LS types described in detail by this memo, namely
   router-LSAs (LS type 0x2001), network-LSAs (0x2002), Inter-Area-
   Prefix-LSAs (0x2003), Inter-Area-Router-LSAs (0x2004), AS-External-
   LSAs (0x4005), Link-LSAs (0x0008) and Intra-Area-Prefix-LSAs (0x2009)
   are assumed to be understood by all routers. However, as an example
   the group-membership-LSA (0x2006) is understood only by MOSPF routers
   and since it has its U-bit set to 0, it should only be forwarded to a
   non-MOSPF neighbor (determined by examining the MC-bit in the
   neighbor's Database Description packets' Options field) when the
   neighbor is Designated Router or Backup Designated Router for the



Coltun, et al.              Standards Track                    [Page 37]

RFC 2740                     OSPF for IPv6                 December 1999


   attached link.

   The previous paragraph solves a problem in IPv4 OSPF extensions such
   as MOSPF, which require that the Designated Router support the
   extension in order to have the new LSA types flooded across broadcast
   and NBMA networks (see Section 10.2 of [Ref8]).

