3.5.3.  Installing LSAs in the database

   There are three separate places to store LSAs, depending on their
   flooding scope. LSAs with AS flooding scope are stored in the global
   OSPF data structure (see Section 3.1) as long as their LS type is
   known or their U-bit is 1. LSAs with area flooding scope are stored
   in the appropriate area data structure (see Section 3.1.1) as long as
   their LS type is known or their U-bit is 1. LSAs with link-local
   flooding scope, and those LSAs with unknown LS type and U-bit set to
   0 (treat the LSA as if it had link-local flooding scope) are stored
   in the appropriate interface structure.

   When storing the LSA into the link-state database, a check must be
   made to see whether the LSA's contents have changed.  Changes in
   contents are indicated exactly as in Section 13.2 of [Ref1]. When an
   LSA's contents have been changed, the following parts of the routing
   table must be recalculated, based on the LSA's LS type:

   Router-LSAs, Network-LSAs, Intra-Area-Prefix-LSAs and Link-LSAs
      The entire routing table is recalculated, starting with the
      shortest path calculation for each area (see Section 3.8).

   Inter-Area-Prefix-LSAs and Inter-Area-Router-LSAs
      The best route to the destination described by the LSA must be
      recalculated (see Section 16.5 in [Ref1]).  If this destination is
      an AS boundary router, it may also be necessary to re-examine all
      the AS-external-LSAs.

   AS-external-LSAs
      The best route to the destination described by the AS-external-LSA
      must be recalculated (see Section 16.6 in [Ref1]).

   As in IPv4, any old instance of the LSA must be removed from the
   database when the new LSA is installed.  This old instance must also
   be removed from all neighbors' Link state retransmission lists.









Coltun, et al.              Standards Track                    [Page 38]

RFC 2740                     OSPF for IPv6                 December 1999


