3.8.1.  Calculating the shortest path tree for an area

   The IPv4 shortest path calculation is contained in Section 16.1 of
   [Ref1].  The graph used by the shortest-path tree calculation is
   identical for both IPv4 and IPv6. The graph's vertices are routers
   and transit links, represented by router-LSAs and network-LSAs
   respectively. A router is identified by its OSPF Router ID, while a
   transit link is identified by its Designated Router's Interface ID
   and OSPF Router ID. Both routers and transit links have associated
   routing table entries within the area (see Section 3.3).

   Section 16.1 of [Ref1] splits up the shortest path calculations into
   two stages. First the Dijkstra calculation is performed, and then the
   stub links are added onto the tree as leaves. The IPv6 calculation
   maintains this split.

   The Dijkstra calculation for IPv6 is identical to that specified for
   IPv4, with the following exceptions (referencing the steps from the
   Dijkstra calculation as described in Section 16.1 of [Ref1]):

   o  The Vertex ID for a router is the OSPF Router ID. The Vertex ID
      for a transit network is a combination of the Interface ID and
      OSPF Router ID of the network's Designated Router.






Coltun, et al.              Standards Track                    [Page 40]

RFC 2740                     OSPF for IPv6                 December 1999


   o  In Step 2, when a router Vertex V has just been added to the
      shortest path tree, there may be multiple LSAs associated with the
      router. All Router-LSAs with Advertising Router set to V's OSPF
      Router ID must processed as an aggregate, treating them as
      fragments of a single large router-LSA. The Options field and the
      router type bits (bits W, V, E and B) should always be taken from
      "fragment" with the smallest Link State ID.

   o  Step 2a is not needed in IPv6, as there are no longer stub network
      links in router-LSAs.

   o  In Step 2b, if W is a router, there may again be multiple LSAs
      associated with the router. All Router-LSAs with Advertising
      Router set to W's OSPF Router ID must processed as an aggregate,
      treating them as fragments of a single large router-LSA.

   o  In Step 4, there are now per-area routing table entries for each
      of an area's routers, instead of just the area border routers.
      These entries subsume all the functionality of IPv4's area border
      router routing table entries, including the maintenance of virtual
      links.  When the router added to the area routing table in this
      step is the other end of a virtual link, the virtual neighbor's IP
      address is set as follows: The collection of intra-area-prefix-
      LSAs originated by the virtual neighbor is examined, with the
      virtual neighbor's IP address being set to the first prefix
      encountered having the "LA-bit" set.

   o  Routing table entries for transit networks, which are no longer
      associated with IP networks, are also modified in Step 4.

   The next stage of the shortest path calculation proceeds similarly to
   the two steps of the second stage of Section 16.1 in [Ref1]. However,
   instead of examining the stub links within router-LSAs, the list of
   the area's intra-area-prefix-LSAs is examined. A prefix advertisement
   whose "NU-bit" is set should not be included in the routing
   calculation. The cost of any advertised prefix is the sum of the
   prefix' advertised metric plus the cost to the transit vertex (either
   router or transit network) identified by intra-area-prefix-LSA's
   Referenced LS type, Referenced Link State ID and Referenced
   Advertising Router fields. This latter cost is stored in the transit
   vertex' routing table entry for the area.

