A.1 Encapsulation of OSPF packets

   OSPF runs directly over the IPv6's network layer.  OSPF packets are
   therefore encapsulated solely by IPv6 and local data-link headers.

   OSPF does not define a way to fragment its protocol packets, and
   depends on IPv6 fragmentation when transmitting packets larger than
   the link MTU. If necessary, the length of OSPF packets can be up to
   65,535 bytes.  The OSPF packet types that are likely to be large
   (Database Description Packets, Link State Request, Link State Update,
   and Link State Acknowledgment packets) can usually be split into
   several separate protocol packets, without loss of functionality.
   This is recommended; IPv6 fragmentation should be avoided whenever
   possible.  Using this reasoning, an attempt should be made to limit
   the sizes of OSPF packets sent over virtual links to 1280 bytes
   unless Path MTU Discovery is being performed [Ref14].

   The other important features of OSPF's IPv6 encapsulation are:

   o   Use of IPv6 multicast. Some OSPF messages are multicast, when
       sent over broadcast networks.  Two distinct IP multicast
       addresses are used.  Packets sent to these multicast addresses
       should never be forwarded; they are meant to travel a single hop
       only. As such, the multicast addresses have been chosen with
       link-local scope, and packets sent to these addresses should have
       their IPv6 Hop Limit set to 1.






Coltun, et al.              Standards Track                    [Page 46]

RFC 2740                     OSPF for IPv6                 December 1999


   AllSPFRouters
      This multicast address has been assigned the value FF02::5.  All
      routers running OSPF should be prepared to receive packets sent to
      this address.  Hello packets are always sent to this destination.
      Also, certain OSPF protocol packets are sent to this address
      during the flooding procedure.

   AllDRouters
      This multicast address has been assigned the value FF02::6.  Both
      the Designated Router and Backup Designated Router must be
      prepared to receive packets destined to this address.  Certain
      OSPF protocol packets are sent to this address during the flooding
      procedure.

   o  OSPF is IP protocol 89.  This number should be inserted in the
      Next Header field of the encapsulating IPv6 header.

