C.2 Area parameters

   All routers belonging to an area must agree on that area's
   configuration.  Disagreements between two routers will lead to an
   inability for adjacencies to form between them, with a resulting
   hindrance to the flow of routing protocol and data traffic.  The
   following items must be configured for an area:

   Area ID
       This is a 32-bit number that identifies the area.  The Area
       ID of 0 is reserved for the backbone.

   List of address ranges
       Address ranges control the advertisement of routes across
       area boundaries. Each address range consists of the
       following items:

       [IPv6 prefix, prefix length]
               Describes the collection of IPv6 addresses contained in
               the address range.

       Status  Set to either Advertise or DoNotAdvertise.  Routing
               information is condensed at area boundaries.  External to
               the area, at most a single route is advertised (via a
               inter-area-prefix-LSA) for each address range. The route
               is advertised if and only if the address range's Status
               is set to Advertise.  Unadvertised ranges allow the
               existence of certain networks to be intentionally hidden
               from other areas. Status is set to Advertise by default.








Coltun, et al.              Standards Track                    [Page 74]

RFC 2740                     OSPF for IPv6                 December 1999


   ExternalRoutingCapability
      Whether AS-external-LSAs will be flooded into/throughout the area.
      If AS-external-LSAs are excluded from the area, the area is called
      a "stub".  Internal to stub areas, routing to external
      destinations will be based solely on a default inter-area route.
      The backbone cannot be configured as a stub area. Also, virtual
      links cannot be configured through stub areas. For more
      information, see Section 3.6 of [Ref1].

   StubDefaultCost
      If the area has been configured as a stub area, and the router
      itself is an area border router, then the StubDefaultCost
      indicates the cost of the default inter-area-prefix-LSA that the
      router should advertise into the area. See Section 12.4.3.1 of
      [Ref1] for more information.

