C.3 Router interface parameters

   Some of the configurable router interface parameters (such as Area
   ID, HelloInterval and RouterDeadInterval) actually imply properties
   of the attached links, and therefore must be consistent across all
   the routers attached to that link.  The parameters that must be
   configured for a router interface are:

   IPv6 link-local address
      The IPv6 link-local address associated with this interface.  May
      be learned through auto-configuration.

   Area ID
      The OSPF area to which the attached link belongs.

   Instance ID
      The OSPF protocol instance associated with this OSPF interface.
      Defaults to 0.

   Interface ID
      32-bit number uniquely identifying this interface among the
      collection of this router's interfaces. For example, in some
      implementations it may be possible to use the MIB-II IfIndex
      ([Ref3]).

   IPv6 prefixes
      The list of IPv6 prefixes to associate with the link. These will
      be advertised in intra-area-prefix-LSAs.







Coltun, et al.              Standards Track                    [Page 75]

RFC 2740                     OSPF for IPv6                 December 1999


   Interface output cost(s)
      The cost of sending a packet on the interface, expressed in the
      link state metric.  This is advertised as the link cost for this
      interface in the router's router-LSA. The interface output cost
      must always be greater than 0.

   RxmtInterval
      The number of seconds between LSA retransmissions, for adjacencies
      belonging to this interface.  Also used when retransmitting
      Database Description and Link State Request Packets.  This should
      be well over the expected round-trip delay between any two routers
      on the attached link.  The setting of this value should be
      conservative or needless retransmissions will result.  Sample
      value for a local area network: 5 seconds.

   InfTransDelay
      The estimated number of seconds it takes to transmit a Link State
      Update Packet over this interface.  LSAs contained in the update
      packet must have their age incremented by this amount before
      transmission.  This value should take into account the
      transmission and propagation delays of the interface. It must be
      greater than 0.  Sample value for a local area network: 1 second.

   Router Priority
      An 8-bit unsigned integer. When two routers attached to a network
      both attempt to become Designated Router, the one with the highest
      Router Priority takes precedence. If there is still a tie, the
      router with the highest Router ID takes precedence.  A router
      whose Router Priority is set to 0 is ineligible to become
      Designated Router on the attached link.  Router Priority is only
      configured for interfaces to broadcast and NBMA networks.

   HelloInterval
      The length of time, in seconds, between the Hello Packets that the
      router sends on the interface.  This value is advertised in the
      router's Hello Packets.  It must be the same for all routers
      attached to a common link.  The smaller the HelloInterval, the
      faster topological changes will be detected; however, more OSPF
      routing protocol traffic will ensue.  Sample value for a X.25 PDN:
      30 seconds.  Sample value for a local area network (LAN): 10
      seconds.

   RouterDeadInterval
      After ceasing to hear a router's Hello Packets, the number of
      seconds before its neighbors declare the router down.  This is
      also advertised in the router's Hello Packets in their





Coltun, et al.              Standards Track                    [Page 76]

RFC 2740                     OSPF for IPv6                 December 1999


      RouterDeadInterval field.  This should be some multiple of the
      HelloInterval (say 4).  This value again must be the same for all
      routers attached to a common link.

