5. Scrolling synchronously				*scroll-binding*

Occasionally, it is desirable to bind two or more windows together such that
when one window is scrolled, the other windows are also scrolled.  In Vim,
windows can be given this behavior by setting the (window-specific)
'scrollbind' option.  When a window that has 'scrollbind' set is scrolled, all
other 'scrollbind' windows are scrolled the same amount, if possible.  The
behavior of 'scrollbind' can be modified by the 'scrollopt' option.

When using the scrollbars, the binding only happens when scrolling the window
with focus (where the cursor is).  You can use this to avoid scroll-binding
for a moment without resetting options.

When a window also has the 'diff' option set, the scroll-binding uses the
differences between the two buffers to synchronize the position precisely.
Otherwise the following method is used.

							*scrollbind-relative*
Each 'scrollbind' window keeps track of its "relative offset," which can be
thought of as the difference between the current window's vertical scroll
position and the other window's vertical scroll position.  When one of the
'scrollbind' windows is asked to vertically scroll past the beginning or end
limit of its text, the window no longer scrolls, but remembers how far past
the limit it wishes to be.  The window keeps this information so that it can
maintain the same relative offset, regardless of its being asked to scroll
past its buffer's limits.

However, if a 'scrollbind' window that has a relative offset that is past its
buffer's limits is given the cursor focus, the other 'scrollbind' windows must
jump to a location where the current window's relative offset is valid.  This
behavior can be changed by clearing the "jump" flag from the 'scrollopt'
option.

						*syncbind* *:syncbind* *:sync*
:syncbind		Force all 'scrollbind' windows to have the same
			relative offset.  I.e., when any of the 'scrollbind'
			windows is scrolled to the top of its buffer, all of
			the 'scrollbind' windows will also be at the top of
			their buffers.

							*scrollbind-quickadj*
The 'scrollbind' flag is meaningful when using keyboard commands to vertically
scroll a window, and also meaningful when using the vertical scrollbar of the
window which has the cursor focus.  However, when using the vertical scrollbar
of a window which doesn't have the cursor focus, 'scrollbind' is ignored.
This allows quick adjustment of the relative offset of 'scrollbind' windows.

